el article	el	article	masculine singular definite article; the		
él pron	él	pron	he, him, masculine personal third person subject and disjunctive pronoun (used as a subject and after prepositions)		
de prep	de	prep	of; 's; used after the thing owned and before the owner		
ser verb	ser	verb	to be (essentially or identified as)		
ser noun	ser	noun	a being, organism		
a prep	a	prep	to		
que conj	que	conj	that		
que pron	que	pron	who; that		
que prep	que	prep	than		
no adv	no	adv	not		
¿no? intj	¿no?	intj	eh?, right?, isn't it? (used as a tag question, to emphasise what precedes, or to request that the listener express an opinion)		
uno num	uno	num	one		
uno det	uno	det	one		
uno pron	uno	pron	one		
en prep	en	prep	in, at, on		
estar verb	estar	verb	to be (still)		
haber verb	haber	verb	have; forms the perfect aspect		
haber noun	haber	noun	asset		
tener verb	tener	verb	to have; to possess		
tú pron	tú	pron	second person pronoun in singular tense; you		
y conj	y	conj	and		
por prep	por	prep	by (indicates the creator of a work)		
por intj	por	intj	why do you ask?, why are you asking?		
este det	este	det	this		
este intj	este	intj	uh, well (space filler in a conversation)		
este noun	este	noun	east		
poder verb	poder	verb	to be able to, can		
poder noun	poder	noun	power, reign		
hacer verb	hacer	verb	to do		
hacer noun	hacer	noun	task, action		
con prep	con	prep	with		
mucho det	mucho	det	much, a lot of		
mucho adv	mucho	adv	much, a lot, far, way		
mucho pron	mucho	pron	a lot, many		
ir verb	ir	verb	to go (away from speaker and listener)		
para prep	para	prep	for, to (expressing a recipient)		
todo det	todo	det	all; every		
todo pron	todo	pron	everything		
qué det	qué	det	what; which		
qué adv	qué	adv	what a; such (used as an intensifier)		
qué pron	qué	pron	what (interrogative only)		
querer verb	querer	verb	to desire, to want, to want to		
querer noun	querer	noun	love; affection; fondness		
más adv	más	adv	more; -er (used to make comparisons)		
más det	más	det	more, any more		
más conj	más	conj	plus		
ese det	ese	det	that		
ese intj	ese	intj	hello		
decir verb	decir	verb	to say, to tell		
decir noun	decir	noun	saying		
saber verb	saber	verb	to know, to understand (a fact)		
saber noun	saber	noun	knowledge		
ver verb	ver	verb	to see, to spot		
si conj	si	conj	if		
como adv	como	adv	as (to such an extent or degree)		
como conj	como	conj	as, since (being that)		
como prep	como	prep	as (in the manner or role specified)		
gustar verb	gustar	verb	to taste, to try (determine the flavour of something by putting it in one's mouth)		
deber verb	deber	verb	to owe		
deber noun	deber	noun	obligation, duty		
hablar verb	hablar	verb	to talk; to speak; to communicate using words		
pero conj	pero	conj	but		
pero noun	pero	noun	but (restriction)		
tanto det	tanto	det	so much; as much; that much		
tanto adv	tanto	adv	so much, long, hard, often, etc.		
tanto pron	tanto	pron	so much; so many		
dar verb	dar	verb	to give, to give out		
vez noun	vez	noun	time, instance		
cuando adv	cuando	adv	when		
cuando conj	cuando	conj	when		
casa noun	casa	noun	house		
creer verb	creer	verb	to believe		
ya adv	ya	adv	now		
ya conj	ya	conj	first (something) then (something else); first (something), now (something else)		
ya intj	ya	intj	come on!, let's go!		
día noun	día	noun	day (any period of 24 hours)		
aquí adv	aquí	adv	here		
tiempo noun	tiempo	noun	time		
nada pron	nada	pron	nothing, zero, zilch, not...anything		
nada noun	nada	noun	nothingness, nothing		
nada adv	nada	adv	not at all		
bien adv	bien	adv	well (adverbial form of bueno)		
bien adj	bien	adj	well-to-do; affluent; wealthy; upper-class		
bien noun	bien	noun	good; better (substantive)		
año noun	año	noun	year		
pasar verb	pasar	verb	to pass, to hand, to slip		
pensar verb	pensar	verb	to think		
otro det	otro	det	other, another		
otro intj	otro	intj	"Not again! or ""What, again?"" (also Otra vez! or Otra vez?)"		
otro pron	otro	pron	someone else; another person		
algo pron	algo	pron	something, anything		
algo adv	algo	adv	rather, somewhat, kind of		
venir verb	venir	verb	to come (to move towards the speaker)		
dejar verb	dejar	verb	to leave off		
alguno det	alguno	det	some, any		
alguno pron	alguno	pron	someone		
dos num	dos	num	two		
siempre adv	siempre	adv	always		
cómo adv	cómo	adv	how?		
cómo intj	cómo	intj	sorry? what? (expressing surprise or asking to repeat)		
cómo noun	cómo	noun	how		
vivir verb	vivir	verb	to live; to be alive		
vivir noun	vivir	noun	life; lifestyle		
llegar verb	llegar	verb	to arrive, get (to)		
o conj	o	conj	or		
ahora adv	ahora	adv	now (at the present time)		
ahora conj	ahora	conj	now...now, whether...or...		
nuestro pron	nuestro	pron	ours		
nuestro det	nuestro	det	our, ours, to us		
nunca adv	nunca	adv	never		
quedar verb	quedar	verb	to be left; to remain		
esperar verb	esperar	verb	to hope		
libro noun	libro	noun	book		
parecer verb	parecer	verb	to seem, to see fit		
parecer noun	parecer	noun	appearance (used generally when a person is pretty)		
sin prep	sin	prep	without		
necesitar verb	necesitar	verb	to need		
mejor adj	mejor	adj	better		
mejor adv	mejor	adv	better		
mañana adv	mañana	adv	tomorrow		
mañana noun	mañana	noun	the morning		
encontrar verb	encontrar	verb	to meet		
favor noun	favor	noun	favor/favour		
llevar verb	llevar	verb	to take, to carry, to take away, to carry away, to carry around, to bring, to bear, to lug (implies to move something further from who speaks)		
poco det	poco	det	little, not much		
poco adv	poco	adv	little (not much)		
poco noun	poco	noun	little (a small amount)		
vida noun	vida	noun	life		
comer verb	comer	verb	to eat		
comer noun	comer	noun	eating, food		
comprar verb	comprar	verb	to buy out		
quién pron	quién	pron	who?, whom?; (with “de”) whose?		
hoy adv	hoy	adv	today		
volver verb	volver	verb	to return, to revert, to get back		
padre noun	padre	noun	father		
padre adj	padre	adj	cool, acceptable, easy		
mismo adj	mismo	adj	same; identical; one and the same; indicates that the two compared noun clauses both represent the one thing		
mismo adv	mismo	adv	right, exactly, immediately		
hombre noun	hombre	noun	man, (adult male human)		
hombre intj	hombre	intj	man!		
trabajo noun	trabajo	noun	work, job		
dónde adv	dónde	adv	where?; in what place?		
dónde noun	dónde	noun	where		
persona noun	persona	noun	person (an individual; usually a human being)		
poner verb	poner	verb	to put, to put up, to place, to lay		
nuevo adj	nuevo	adj	new		
verdad noun	verdad	noun	truth		
verdad intj	verdad	intj	right		
niño noun	niño	noun	child, boy		
dinero noun	dinero	noun	money		
salir verb	salir	verb	to go out, to leave, to depart, to head out		
amigo noun	amigo	noun	friend		
sobre prep	sobre	prep	over, above, on, upon, atop		
cosa noun	cosa	noun	thing (object, concept)		
nadie pron	nadie	pron	no one; nobody (anyone or anybody)		
tomar verb	tomar	verb	to take		
antes adv	antes	adv	earlier; before; sooner; previously; formerly; beforehand (at an earlier time)		
antes prep	antes	prep	before (earlier than) (triggers the subjunctive in subordinate clauses)		
hora noun	hora	noun	hour, period (of class)		
conocer verb	conocer	verb	to know (a person or a place), to be familiar with, to be acquainted with		
llamar verb	llamar	verb	to summon, to call		
hasta adv	hasta	adv	even		
hasta prep	hasta	prep	until		
así adv	así	adv	like this; like that; as such; thus; so; thereby; this way, that way		
mundo noun	mundo	noun	world, earth (human collective existence)		
noche noun	noche	noun	night (the period between sunset and sunrise)		
noche adv	noche	adv	after dark, (late) at night, nocturnally		
ayudar verb	ayudar	verb	to help		
porque conj	porque	conj	because		
trabajar verb	trabajar	verb	to work		
escribir verb	escribir	verb	to write (to be an author)		
tres num	tres	num	three		
problema noun	problema	noun	problem, issue, challenge (a difficulty or obstacle that has to be dealt with)		
ni conj	ni	conj	neither... nor		
ni adv	ni	adv	not even		
perder verb	perder	verb	to lose		
demasiado adj	demasiado	adj	too much, too many, excessive		
demasiado adv	demasiado	adv	too much, excessively, far too much, overmuch (modifying a verb)		
sentir verb	sentir	verb	to feel		
sentir noun	sentir	noun	feeling; mood		
gente noun	gente	noun	people		
primero noun	primero	noun	former (in contrast to the latter), first, first one		
primero adj	primero	adj	first, first up		
primero adv	primero	adv	first; first of all; firstly		
tarde adj	tarde	adj	late		
tarde adv	tarde	adv	late		
tarde noun	tarde	noun	afternoon		
todavía adv	todavía	adv	still, yet		
mujer noun	mujer	noun	woman		
perro noun	perro	noun	dog		
perro adj	perro	adj	doggy or doggish		
cada det	cada	det	each; every		
leer verb	leer	verb	to read		
jugar verb	jugar	verb	to play		
también adv	también	adv	also, too, as well		
coche noun	coche	noun	car, automobile		
aprender verb	aprender	verb	to learn (to acquire, or attempt to acquire knowledge or an ability to do something)		
seguir verb	seguir	verb	to follow		
agua noun	agua	noun	water		
después adv	después	adv	later, afterwards, afterward, post		
pedir verb	pedir	verb	to ask for something		
desde prep	desde	prep	since		
hijo noun	hijo	noun	son		
palabra noun	palabra	noun	word		
entender verb	entender	verb	to understand, to fathom		
entender noun	entender	noun	understanding; opinion		
cuánto adv	cuánto	adv	how much; how many		
cuánto det	cuánto	det	how much; how many		
acabar verb	acabar	verb	to finish; to end		
ayer adv	ayer	adv	yesterday		
ayer noun	ayer	noun	yesterday		
ninguno det	ninguno	det	no; none		
ninguno pron	ninguno	pron	nobody; no one		
inglés noun	inglés	noun	English (language)		
alguien pron	alguien	pron	someone, somebody		
morir verb	morir	verb	to die		
madre noun	madre	noun	mother		
menos adv	menos	adv	less		
menos det	menos	det	less, fewer		
menos prep	menos	prep	minus, (unless)		
menos noun	menos	noun	minus sign		
empezar verb	empezar	verb	to start, begin, to get started		
semana noun	semana	noun	week (7 days)		
país noun	país	noun	country (the territory of a nation)		
entre prep	entre	prep	between		
mirar verb	mirar	verb	to look at oneself		
preguntar verb	preguntar	verb	to ask		
ciudad noun	ciudad	noun	city		
mano noun	mano	noun	hand		
cuál pron	cuál	pron	what (in terms of a very specific item); which, which one		
cuál det	cuál	det	what; which (interrogative only)		
usar verb	usar	verb	to use		
grande adj	grande	adj	big, large		
aquel det	aquel	det	that (over there; implying some distance)		
estudiar verb	estudiar	verb	to study		
dormir verb	dormir	verb	to sleep		
oír verb	oír	verb	to hear		
terminar verb	terminar	verb	to (cause to) finish, to (cause to) end, to (cause to) terminate, to (cause to) conclude		
escuchar verb	escuchar	verb	to listen to, to hear out		
hermano noun	hermano	noun	brother		
seguro adj	seguro	adj	secure; safe (free from danger)		
seguro noun	seguro	noun	insurance (indemnity against a future occurrence)		
seguro adv	seguro	adv	for sure		
durante prep	durante	prep	during, in, over		
lugar noun	lugar	noun	place		
escuela noun	escuela	noun	school (the followers of a particular doctrine)		
intentar verb	intentar	verb	to try, to attempt; especially: to strain or put forth effort in so doing		
mal adv	mal	adv	badly, poorly, ill		
mal noun	mal	noun	evil, harm; a bad thing or situation		
cuándo adv	cuándo	adv	when		
buscar verb	buscar	verb	to seek, search for, look for, try to find, to scour		
solo adj	solo	adj	sole; one; only; single (unique)		
solo adv	solo	adv	only; solely; just		
nombre noun	nombre	noun	name		
contar verb	contar	verb	to count; to tally		
gato noun	gato	noun	cat (unspecified gender)		
pequeño adj	pequeño	adj	small; little		
puerta noun	puerta	noun	door (portal of entry into a building)		
cambiar verb	cambiar	verb	to change, to shift, to switch, to alter		
difícil adj	difícil	adj	difficult, hard, tough, challenging, rough, tricky, trying, arduous, testing		
parte noun	parte	noun	part; section; portion; share; piece; bit; cut; proportion		
feliz adj	feliz	adj	happy, merry (trait)		
clase noun	clase	noun	lecture		
momento noun	momento	noun	moment, instant		
olvidar verb	olvidar	verb	to forget		
ganar verb	ganar	verb	to gain		
tratar verb	tratar	verb	to treat (to apply medical care)		
idea noun	idea	noun	idea		
aún adv	aún	adv	still, yet		
habitación noun	habitación	noun	room (separate part of a building)		
casi adv	casi	adv	almost		
último adj	último	adj	final; last		
allí adv	allí	adv	there (away from the speaker and the listener)		
idioma noun	idioma	noun	language		
caer verb	caer	verb	to fall (to come down, to drop, to descend)		
sí particle	sí	particle	yes (commonly used to respond affirmatively to a question)		
sí noun	sí	noun	yes; aye, ay; approbation, acceptance		
sí pron	sí	pron	himself, herself, itself, themselves, yourself, yourselves (form of se used after prepositions)		
medio adj	medio	adj	half (of or related to any large proportion of a whole)		
medio adv	medio	adv	half, incompletely (indicating an action interrupted or only partially done)		
medio noun	medio	noun	half (any fraction with a denominator of 2)		
pasado adj	pasado	adj	past		
pasado noun	pasado	noun	past, bygones		
ojo noun	ojo	noun	eye		
ojo intj	ojo	intj	look! watch out!		
amar verb	amar	verb	to love, have great affection for, care about		
pronto adj	pronto	adj	prompt, on time		
pronto adv	pronto	adv	soon, promptly, any time soon		
beber verb	beber	verb	to drink		
donde adv	donde	adv	where, in what place		
donde conj	donde	conj	because		
donde prep	donde	prep	by, near to		
donde pron	donde	pron	where, in what place		
entrar verb	entrar	verb	to enter; to come in; to get in; to go in; to get inside; to come on in		
comida noun	comida	noun	food		
carta noun	carta	noun	letter (document)		
lengua noun	lengua	noun	tongue (organ)		
dinámica adj	dinámica	adj	dynamic	Es una ciudad joven y dinámica.	It's a young and dynamic city.
joven adj	joven	adj	young, youthful	Es una ciudad joven y dinámica.	It's a young and dynamic city.
biblioteca noun	biblioteca	noun	library	Voy a la biblioteca después de clases.	I'm going to the library after classes.
joven noun	joven	noun	youth, young person, youngster	La joven trabaja en una biblioteca.	The young woman works in a library.
financiamiento noun	financiamiento	noun	financing	BP aportará el 65 por ciento de la financiación para el proyecto.	BP will provide 65 percent of the financing for the project.
proyecto noun	proyecto	noun	project, plan	Buscamos financiamiento para el proyecto.	We are looking for funding for the project.
mes noun	mes	noun	month	Este mes empezamos un proyecto.	This month we're starting a project.
alto adj	alto	adj	tall	El edificio nuevo es muy alto.	The new building is very tall.
trozo noun	trozo	noun	piece	Quiero un trozo más grande.	I want a bigger piece.
muro noun	muro	noun	wall	Se cayó un trozo del muro.	A piece of the wall fell off.
curso noun	curso	noun	course, trajectory, route, direction	El proyecto sigue en curso sin problemas.	The project is still on track without any problems.
mejorar verb	mejorar	verb	to make better, improve	He mejorado mucho desde el curso pasado.	I've improved a lot since last semester.
relación noun	relación	noun	relation	Nuestra relación mejoró después de hablar.	Our relationship improved after talking.
tenso adj	tenso	adj	tense, strained, taut, tensed	La relación entre ellos está tensa.	The relationship between them is tense.
cuerda noun	cuerda	noun	rope, cord, string	La cuerda está muy tensa ahora.	The rope is very taut now.
alcanzar verb	alcanzar	verb	to reach; to attain or achieve; to catch up with	No alcanzaba la cuerda con la mano.	I couldn't reach the rope with my hand.
ponente adj	ponente	adj	speaker, presenter, lecturer	Los ponentes del congreso son especialistas de prestigio.	The speakers at the congress are prestigious specialists.
yo pron	yo	pron	I	Yo te amo	I love you
sincero adj	sincero	adj	sincere	Él siempre fue muy sincero conmigo.	He was always very honest with me.
sonrisa noun	sonrisa	noun	smile	Ella tiene una sonrisa muy sincera.	She has a very sincere smile.
amable adj	amable	adj	kind, amiable, gracious	Ella tiene una sonrisa amable.	She has a kind smile.
profesor noun	profesor	noun	professor (a faculty member)	El profesor es muy amable con todos.	The professor is very kind to everyone.
conferencia noun	conferencia	noun	conference	El profesor dará una conferencia mañana.	The professor will give a lecture tomorrow.
invitado adj	invitado	adj	invited	Ella fue la ponente invitada de la conferencia.	She was the guest speaker at the conference.
historia noun	historia	noun	history (the aggregate of past events)	En la escuela aprendemos historia cada semana.	At school we learn history every week.
toma noun	toma	noun	conquest, capture, taking, takeover	La toma del poder cambió la historia.	The seizure of power changed history.
medicina noun	medicina	noun	medicine	Toma la medicina después de comer.	Take the medicine after eating.
farmacia noun	farmacia	noun	drugstore, pharmacy	Voy a la farmacia para comprar medicinas.	I'm going to the pharmacy to buy medications.
receta noun	receta	noun	prescription (a doctor's written order authorizing medicine or a treatment)	No puedo comprarlo sin receta en la farmacia.	I can't buy it without a prescription at the pharmacy.
limón noun	limón	noun	lemon (fruit)	Compré un limón para la receta.	I bought a lemon for the recipe.
invitado noun	invitado	noun	guest, houseguest; invitee	Un invitado pidió agua con limón.	A guest asked for water with lemon.
silla noun	silla	noun	chair	Necesitamos otra silla para el invitado.	We need another chair for the guest.
metro noun	metro	noun	meter	Hay un metro entre las sillas.	There is one meter between the chairs.
alto noun	alto	noun	height (in measurements)	El alto del muro es de tres metros.	The height of the wall is three meters.
alto adv	alto	adv	up, high, highly	Por favor, habla más alto, no te escucho.	Please, speak louder, I can't hear you.
tranquilamente adv	tranquilamente	adv	calmy, serenely, peacefully	después de robar el banco salió andando tranquilamente	After robbing the bank, he calmy left
naranja adj	naranja	adj	orange (having orange color)	Ese gato naranja duerme tranquilamente.	That orange cat sleeps peacefully.
marte noun	marte	noun	mars	Marte tiene dos lunas pequeñas.	Mars has two small moons.
luna noun	luna	noun	moon	Marte tiene dos lunas pequeñas.	Mars has two small moons.
brillante adj	brillante	adj	bright, brilliant, lustrous, shiny, glowing, sparkly, glittering, glossy	La luna se veía brillante esta noche.	The moon looked bright tonight.
planificación noun	planificación	noun	planning	Un equipo de expertos se encargó de la planificación del proyecto	A team of experts was in charge of planning the project
movilidad noun	movilidad	noun	mobility	xxx	xxx
rutina noun	rutina	noun	routine	xxx	xxx
tranquilo adj	tranquilo	adj	calm, peaceful, tranquil, quiet	Necesitamos una tarde tranquila en casa.	We need a quiet afternoon at home.
solucionar verb	solucionar	verb	to solve; to implement a solution	Necesitamos solucionar este problema hoy.	We need to solve this problem today.
tranquilo intj	tranquilo	intj	relax! calm down!	¡Tranquilo, ya solucionamos el problema!	Calm down, we've already solved the problem!
estudio noun	estudio	noun	study	Necesito un lugar de estudio tranquilo.	I need a quiet place to study.
diario adj	diario	adj	daily	Sigo una rutina diaria de estudio.	I follow a daily study routine.
diario noun	diario	noun	diary, journal	Escribimos en nuestros diarios cada mañana.	We write in our journals every morning.
urbano adj	urbano	adj	urban	La planificación urbana mejora la movilidad diaria.	Urban planning improves daily mobility.
estación noun	estación	noun	station	El metro sale de esta estación.	The subway leaves from this station.
paisaje noun	paisaje	noun	landscape (the view of an area of land)	El paisaje urbano cambia cada estación.	The urban landscape changes every season.
hermoso adj	hermoso	adj	gorgeous, beautiful, handsome, lovely	Qué paisaje tan hermoso vimos hoy.	What a beautiful landscape we saw today.
blanco adj	blanco	adj	white	La casa blanca se ve hermosa.	The white house looks beautiful.
bus noun	bus	noun	bus	Cambiamos de bus en la estación.	We switch buses at the station.
nocturno adj	nocturno	adj	night	Los buses nocturnos pasan cada media hora.	The night buses run every half hour.
nocturno noun	nocturno	noun	nocturne (composition)	Escuchamos un nocturno de Chopin en clase.	We listened to a nocturne by Chopin in class.
baño noun	baño	noun	bath	Tomar un baño nocturno me ayuda a dormir mejor.	Taking a nighttime bath helps me sleep better.
pared noun	pared	noun	wall, especially of a house or room	Las paredes del baño son blancas.	The bathroom walls are white.
blanco noun	blanco	noun	white	Me gusta el blanco para las paredes.	I like white for the walls.
perla noun	perla	noun	pearl	Ella compró una perla blanca brillante.	She bought a shiny white pearl.
collar noun	collar	noun	necklace	Lleva un collar de perlas hoy.	She is wearing a pearl necklace today.
brillante noun	brillante	noun	diamond	Ese collar lleva pequeños brillantes.	That necklace has small diamonds.
camisa noun	camisa	noun	shirt	Esa camisa es demasiado grande.	That shirt is too big.
rojo adj	rojo	adj	red (colour)	La camisa roja me queda bien.	The red shirt fits me well.
rojo noun	rojo	noun	red (colour)	Me gusta el rojo en las paredes.	I like red on the walls.
color noun	color	noun	color / colour, hue	Me gusta el color rojo brillante.	I like the color bright red.
otoño noun	otoño	noun	autumn, fall	Los colores del otoño son hermosos.	The colors of autumn are beautiful.
atardecer noun	atardecer	noun	late afternoon, sunset, dusk, evenfall, nightfall	Los atardeceres de otoño son hermosos.	Autumn sunsets are beautiful.
naranja noun	naranja	noun	orange (color)	Me gusta el naranja brillante en los atardeceres.	I like the bright orange in the sunsets.
su adj	su	adj	his, her, their, its, their, your	Me gusta su camisa.	I like your shirt.
importante adj	importante	adj	important, that cares, that matters.	Es muy importante llegar a tiempo a clase.	It is very important to get to class on time.
logro noun	logro	noun	attainment, achievement, accomplishment, success	Aprender a leer fue su primer logro importante.	Learning to read was their first important achievement.
fruta noun	fruta	noun	(the seed-bearing part of a plant)	xxx	xxx
puesto noun	puesto	noun	market stall, market stand	Compré naranjas en el puesto de frutas.	I bought oranges at the fruit stand.
requisito noun	requisito	noun	requirement, requisite	Debes cumplir con los requisitos.	You must meet the requirements.
cumplir verb	cumplir	verb	to fulfil, to fulfill, to meet, to deliver (e.g., requirements, prerequisites, promise, vow)	Debes cumplir con los requisitos.	You must meet the requirements.
trabajador adj	trabajador	adj	hard-working	Ella es trabajadora y siempre cumple.	She is hardworking and always follows through.
distracción noun	distracción	noun	distraction, diversion, amusement	xxx	xxx
turno noun	turno	noun	turn (chance to make a move in a game)	Perdió su turno por estar distraido	He missed his turn because he was distracted.
trabajador noun	trabajador	noun	worker	Hablaron con los trabajadores del turno nocturno.	They spoke with the night shift workers.
pie noun	pie	noun	foot, base	Llegamos a pie hasta la escuela.	We walked to the school.
acuerdo noun	acuerdo	noun	agreement	Llegaron a un acuerdo después de hablar.	They reached an agreement after talking.
beneficiar verb	beneficiar	verb	to benefit	xxx	xxx
final adj	final	adj	final (conclusive, decisive)	El acuerdo final benefició a todas las partes.	The final agreement benefited all the parties.
final noun	final	noun	end (the terminal point of something in space or time)	Quiero quedarme hasta el final.	I want to stay until the end.
instrucción noun	instrucción	noun	instruction	No entendí la instrucción final del profesor.	I didn't understand the teacher's final instruction.
puesto adj	puesto	adj	standing	Los trabajadores estaban puestos de pie esperando instrucciones.	The workers were standing, waiting for instructions.
llover verb	llover	verb	to rain	Ayer llovió durante toda la tarde.	Yesterday it rained all afternoon.
puesto conj	puesto	conj	because, as, since	No saldré hoy, puesto que está lloviendo mucho.	I won't go out today, since it's raining a lot.
frontera noun	frontera	noun	border, frontier	Trabaja en un puesto de frontera.	They work at a border post.
cruzar verb	cruzar	verb	to cross (including of legs)	Ellos ya han cruzado la frontera.	They have already crossed the border.
peligro noun	peligro	noun	peril, danger	Cruzar aquí de noche es un peligro.	Crossing here at night is dangerous.
placebo noun	placebo	noun	placebo	xxx	xxx
alergia noun	alergia	noun	allergy	xxx	xxx
tratamiento noun	tratamiento	noun	treatment	Estoy siguiendo un tratamiento para la alergia.	I'm undergoing treatment for allergies.
síntoma noun	síntoma	noun	symptom (indicators and characteristics of the presence of something else)	Los síntomas mejoraron después del tratamiento.	The symptoms improved after the treatment.
efecto noun	efecto	noun	effect	El efecto placebo mejoró sus síntomas.	The placebo effect improved their symptoms.
claramente adv	claramente	adv	clearly	El profesor habló claramente durante la clase.	The professor spoke clearly during the class.
visible adj	visible	adj	visible	La luna es claramente visible esta noche.	The moon is clearly visible tonight.
inmediato adj	inmediato	adj	immediate	El efecto fue inmediato y visible.	The effect was immediate and visible.
alto intj	alto	intj	halt!; stop!	Cuando veas peligro, ¡Alto de inmediato!	When you see danger, stop immediately!
sala noun	sala	noun	room (a separate part of a building)	Los niños juegan en la sala.	The children play in the living room.
sofá noun	sofá	noun	sofa, couch	Compramos un sofá nuevo para la sala.	We bought a new sofa for the living room.
barrio noun	barrio	noun	neighbourhood	Vivo en un barrio tranquilo y seguro.	I live in a quiet and safe neighborhood.
cómodo adj	cómodo	adj	comfortable	Nos sentimos cómodos en este barrio.	We feel comfortable in this neighborhood.
moderno adj	moderno	adj	modern	Compraron un sofá moderno y cómodo.	They bought a modern and comfortable sofa.
edificio noun	edificio	noun	building	El edificio es muy alto y moderno.	The building is very tall and modern.
mi det	mi	det	apocopic form of mío, my	xxx	xxx
propio adj	propio	adj	own (belonging to)	Necesito mi propia habitación para estudiar.	I need my own room to study.
hermana noun	hermana	noun	sister; female equivalent of hermano (“brother”)	Cada hermana tiene su propia habitación.	Each sister has her own room.
constancia noun	constancia	noun	certainty, constancy, proof, evidence, report (notification to relevant authorities)	xxx	xxx
quien pron	quien	pron	who	Quien estudia con constancia aprende más.	Whoever studies consistently learns more.
cuenta noun	cuenta	noun	count, tally	Perdimos la cuenta de cuántas veces vino.	We lost count of how many times they came.
mosaico noun	mosaico	noun	mosaic	xxx	xxx
formado verb	formado	verb	past participle of formar	xxx	xxx
cuadro noun	cuadro	noun	square (regular quadrilateral)	Los mosaicos están formados por pequeños cuadros iguales.	The mosaics are made up of small identical squares.
derecho adj	derecho	adj	straight; upright (perfectly horizontal or vertical; not diagonal or oblique)	El cuadro no está derecho en la pared.	The picture is not straight on the wall.
abogado noun	abogado	noun	lawyer, solicitor, counsel.	Mi hermano es abogado en Madrid.	My brother is a lawyer in Madrid.
derecho noun	derecho	noun	right (a legal, just or moral entitlement)	Tienes derecho a un abogado.	You have the right to a lawyer.
tardar verb	tardar	verb	to delay	¿Cuánto tardas en llegar al trabajo?	How long does it take you to get to work?
semáforo noun	semáforo	noun	traffic light	Ese semáforo tarda demasiado en cambiar.	That traffic light takes too long to change.
derecho adv	derecho	adv	straight (directly; without pause, delay or detour)	Sigue derecho hasta el semáforo grande.	Go straight until the big traffic light.
menor adj	menor	adj	comparative degree of pequeño: smaller	El perro es menor que el gato.	The dog is younger than the cat.
autorización noun	autorización	noun	authorization	xxx	xxx
menor noun	menor	noun	minor; child	El menor necesitaba autorización de sus padres.	The minor needed authorization from their parents.
proteger verb	proteger	verb	to protect, to defend	Ella protege a sus hermanos menores.	She protects her younger siblings.
humano adj	humano	adj	human	Los derechos humanos protegen a todos.	Human rights protect everyone.
digital adj	digital	adj	digital; dealing with discrete values rather than a continuous spectrum of values digital; dealing with the display of numerical values digital; having to do with the fingers or toes 	xxx	xxx
comunicación noun	comunicación	noun	communication	La comunicación digital ha cambiado nuestras relaciones.	Digital communication has changed our relationships.
humano noun	humano	noun	human, human being	Un humano necesita comunicación para vivir.	A human needs communication to live.
igual adj	igual	adj	equal, same	Los derechos humanos son iguales para todos.	Human rights are the same for everyone.
igual noun	igual	noun	equal (a person or thing of equal status)	Ella no encuentra su igual.	She cannot find her equal.
igual adv	igual	adv	in the same way; just like	Trabaja igual que su hermano.	They work just like their brother.
mueble noun	mueble	noun	a piece of furniture	Compramos un mueble nuevo para la sala.	We bought a new piece of furniture for the living room.
antiguo adj	antiguo	adj	old, former, erstwhile, quondam, one-time, onetime	Compramos muebles antiguos para la sala.	We bought antique furniture for the living room.
tocar verb	tocar	verb	to touch	Intenté tocar el cuadro antiguo.	I tried to touch the old painting.
ahí adv	ahí	adv	there: used to designate a place near the listener	¿Puedes esperar ahí un momento?	Can you wait there a moment?
malo adj	malo	adj	bad	La comida estaba muy mala.	The food was very bad.
prefiero verb	prefiero	verb	first-person singular present indicative of preferir	xxx	xxx
sábana noun	sábana	noun	sheet; bedsheet	Ellos cambian las sábanas cada semana.	They change the sheets every week.
suave adj	suave	adj	smooth, soft, fluffy	Prefiero sábanas suaves para dormir mejor.	I prefer soft sheets to sleep better.
lluvia noun	lluvia	noun	rain	La lluvia cae suavemente esta tarde.	The rain is falling gently this afternoon.
parabrisas noun	parabrisas	noun	windscreen, windshield	xxx	xxx
película noun	película	noun	film (layer)	La lluvia dejó una película de agua en el parabrisas.	The rain left a film of water on the windshield.
malo noun	malo	noun	bad guy; baddie; bad boy; bad person	En la película, el malo pierde siempre.	In the movie, the bad guy always loses.
tarea noun	tarea	noun	task	¿Puedes ayudarme con la tarea esta tarde?	Can you help me with my homework this afternoon?
pregunta noun	pregunta	noun	question (sentence that asks for information)	Tengo una pregunta sobre la tarea.	I have a question about the homework.
único adj	único	adj	only; single; sole	El único problema es el tiempo.	The only problem is time.
cinturón noun	cinturón	noun	belt	Ese cinturón es demasiado grande para mí.	That belt is too big for me.
café adj	café	adj	brown	Llevo un cinturón café hoy.	I'm wearing a brown belt today.
café noun	café	noun	coffee	Pedimos dos cafés para llevar, por favor.	We ordered two coffees to go, please.
abrir verb	abrir	verb	to open, open up	He abierto la cuenta que necesitábamos.	I have opened the account we needed.
retraso noun	retraso	noun	delay	El tren llegó con retraso hoy.	The train arrived late today.
abrir noun	abrir	noun	the act of opening	Hubo retrasos en el abrir de las puertas.	There were delays in the opening of the doors.
junto adj	junto	adj	together	Hoy estamos juntos en casa.	Today we are together at home.
junto adv	junto	adv	together	Trabajamos juntos en el proyecto.	We work together on the project.
junto prep	junto	prep	next to, together with, alongside (+ a)	Me quedé junto a mis amigos.	I stayed next to my friends.
resultar verb	resultar	verb	to result, to turn out, to end up, to prove	Si estudiamos juntos, todo resultará mejor.	If we study together, everything will turn out better.
concepto noun	concepto	noun	concept	Este concepto me resulta difícil de entender.	I find this concept difficult to understand.
comportamiento noun	comportamiento	noun	behavior	El comportamiento del niño mejoró hoy.	The child's behavior improved today.
diferencia noun	diferencia	noun	difference	No noté diferencia en su comportamiento.	I didn't notice any difference in their behavior.
mayor adj	mayor	adj	comparative degree of grande: bigger	La diferencia es mayor que antes.	The difference is greater than before.
liderar verb	liderar	verb	to lead	xxx	xxx
completa adj	completa	adj	feminine singular of completo	xxx	xxx
durar verb	durar	verb	to last	La película dura dos horas completas.	The movie runs a full two hours.
operación noun	operación	noun	operation (a surgical procedure)	La operación duró tres horas y salió muy bien.	The operation lasted three hours and went very well.
mayor noun	mayor	noun	major (military rank)	El mayor lideró la operación nocturna.	The major led the night operation.
rápido adj	rápido	adj	rapid, quick, fast	El coche nuevo es muy rápido.	The new car is very fast.
rápido adv	rápido	adv	rapidly, quickly, fast	Habla rápido para terminar antes.	Speak quickly to finish sooner.
confianza noun	confianza	noun	confidence, trust	Su sonrisa me dio confianza inmediata.	Their smile gave me immediate confidence.
rápido noun	rápido	noun	rapid (part of a river)	Un rápido suave nos dio confianza.	A gentle rapid gave us confidence.
retrasar verb	retrasar	verb	to delay, to set back, to slow down, to postpone, to retard, to hold up, to put back	No quiero retrasar más el proyecto.	I don't want to delay the project any further.
mientras adv	mientras	adv	meanwhile	El tren se retrasa; mientras tanto, leemos un libro.	The train is delayed; meanwhile, we read a book.
pintar verb	pintar	verb	to paint (to apply paint to)	xxx	xxx
abuela noun	abuela	noun	grandmother, female equivalent of abuelo	Sus abuelas cuentan historias por la noche.	Their grandmothers tell stories at night.
fotografía noun	fotografía	noun	photograph	Esta fotografía antigua es de mi abuela.	This old photograph is of my grandmother.
marco noun	marco	noun	frame	Compramos un marco nuevo para la fotografía.	We bought a new frame for the photograph.
ventana noun	ventana	noun	window	Pinté la ventana ayer.	I painted the window yesterday.
cocina noun	cocina	noun	kitchen	La cocina tiene una ventana grande.	The kitchen has a large window.
mientras conj	mientras	conj	while, whilst, as (at the same time as)	Yo leo mientras tú cocinas.	I read while you cook.
soler verb	soler	verb	to be accustomed to doing something, to do something on a regular basis, to do something usually or often	Ella suele leer antes de dormir.	She usually reads before going to sleep.
correr verb	correr	verb	to run, to jog	Mañana correremos antes del trabajo.	Tomorrow we will run before work.
correr noun	correr	noun	course, passing (of time)	Con el correr del tiempo, aprendimos a escucharnos.	Over time, we learned to listen to each other.
largo adj	largo	adj	long, lengthy, extended, prolonged, protracted, (having great duration)	La película fue demasiado larga para los niños.	The movie was too long for the children.
puse verb	puse	verb	first-person singular preterite indicative of poner	xxx	xxx
mesa noun	mesa	noun	table	Puse los libros sobre la mesa.	I put the books on the table.
ofender verb	ofender	verb	to offend	No quise ofender a nadie.	I didn't mean to offend anyone.
medir verb	medir	verb	to measure	Siempre mido mis palabras para no ofender.	I always weigh my words so as not to offend.
largo noun	largo	noun	length	El largo de la mesa es de dos metros.	The length of the table is two meters.
largo intj	largo	intj	get out!, scram!	¡Largo de aquí ahora mismo!	Get out of here right now!
miedo noun	miedo	noun	fear	Siento mucho miedo antes de hablar.	I feel very afraid before speaking.
lealtad noun	lealtad	noun	loyalty	xxx	xxx
amor noun	amor	noun	love	Buscaba amor sincero y lealtad.	I was looking for sincere love and loyalty.
error noun	error	noun	error	Aprender de los errores ayuda a mejorar mucho.	Learning from mistakes helps a lot.
chiste noun	chiste	noun	joke (told joke)	No entendí el chiste del final de la película.	I didn't understand the joke at the end of the movie.
gracia noun	gracia	noun	grace, charm	Ese chiste no tiene ninguna gracia.	That joke isn't funny at all.
cinco num	cinco	num	five	Tengo cinco libros en casa.	I have five books at home.
número noun	número	noun	number	Este número es mayor que aquel.	This number is greater than that one.
cinco noun	cinco	noun	a five	El último número era un cinco.	The last number was a five.
salud noun	salud	noun	health	La salud es muy importante para todos.	Health is very important for everyone.
estornudar verb	estornudar	verb	to sneeze	xxx	xxx
salud intj	salud	intj	bless you (said to somebody who has sneezed)	Cuando estornudes otra vez, diré: ¡Salud!	When you sneeze again, I'll say: Bless you!
sistema noun	sistema	noun	system	Los sistemas de salud deben mejorar.	Health systems must improve.
viejo adj	viejo	adj	old (former, previous)	Cambiaron el viejo sistema por uno digital.	They replaced the old system with a digital one.
interesante adj	interesante	adj	interesting	Me hicieron una pregunta interesante hoy.	They asked me an interesting question today.
viejo noun	viejo	noun	an old person	Los viejos cuentan historias interesantes por la tarde.	The elderly tell interesting stories in the afternoon.
fiesta noun	fiesta	noun	party	Hoy tenemos una fiesta en casa.	Today we have a party at home.
fácil adj	fácil	adj	easy, facile, simple (requiring little effort)	Las instrucciones son fáciles de entender para todos.	The instructions are easy to understand for everyone.
realmente adv	realmente	adv	really, actually, genuinely	¿Realmente entiendes lo que pasó?	Do you really understand what happened?
oficina noun	oficina	noun	office (a room used for non-manual work)	Su oficina tiene una ventana grande.	Their office has a large window.
reunión noun	reunión	noun	meeting, session, appointment	Mañana tengo una reunión importante en la oficina.	Tomorrow I have an important meeting at the office.
corto adj	corto	adj	short (having little duration)	La reunión fue muy corta hoy.	The meeting was very short today.
frase noun	frase	noun	phrase	La frase es muy corta.	The sentence is very short.
pagar verb	pagar	verb	to pay	Que él pague lo que debe.	Let him pay what he owes.
lavo verb	lavo	verb	first-person singular present indicative of lavar	xxx	xxx
vaso noun	vaso	noun	drinking glass	Después de comer, lavo los vasos.	After eating, I wash the glasses.
ansioso adj	ansioso	adj	anxious	Estoy ansioso por empezar el curso.	I'm eager to start the course.
alfombra noun	alfombra	noun	carpet, rug (covering for a floor)	Aspiré la alfombra de la sala.	I vacuumed the carpet in the living room.
circular adj	circular	adj	circular	Compraron alfombras circulares para la sala.	They bought circular rugs for the living room.
tarjeta noun	tarjeta	noun	card	Necesitas la tarjeta para abrir la puerta.	You need the card to open the door.
compra noun	compra	noun	purchase, buying	Hice dos compras pequeñas con tarjeta.	I made two small purchases with a card.
disponible adj	disponible	adj	available	Tenemos habitaciones disponibles para esta noche.	We have rooms available for tonight.
segundo adj	segundo	adj	second (after the first)	Llegué en el segundo tren disponible.	I arrived on the second available train.
segundo noun	segundo	noun	second (unit of time)	Esperé cinco segundos para cruzar.	I waited five seconds to cross.
parar verb	parar	verb	to stop, halt	¿Podrías parar un segundo y escucharme?	Could you stop for a second and listen to me?
circular verb	circular	verb	to circulate	Habíamos circulado durante horas sin parar.	We had been driving for hours without stopping.
forma noun	forma	noun	shape; form; figure	La forma del vaso es circular.	The shape of the glass is circular.
cualquiera pron	cualquiera	pron	anyone, whoever, whomever	No soy mejor que cualquiera.	I'm not better than anyone.
cualquiera det	cualquiera	det	any, whatever, whichever	Cualquier persona puede aprender este idioma.	Anyone can learn this language.
cualquiera noun	cualquiera	noun	a person of no importance; a nobody, zero	Lo trataron como a un cualquiera en la reunión.	They treated him like a nobody at the meeting.
hecho adj	hecho	adj	done, completed	La tarea ya está hecha.	The homework is already done.
hecho noun	hecho	noun	fact	El hecho de estudiar ayuda mucho.	The fact of studying helps a lot.
diez num	diez	num	ten	Vivimos aquí desde hace diez años.	We have lived here for ten years.
diez noun	diez	noun	A (highest grade in testing)	El profesor me puso un diez en el proyecto.	The teacher gave me a ten on the project.
aprendizaje noun	aprendizaje	noun	learning	Los errores son parte del aprendizaje.	Mistakes are part of learning.
tipo noun	tipo	noun	kind, type, sort, manner	Hay muchos tipos de aprendizaje.	There are many types of learning.
impresionar verb	impresionar	verb	to impress; to make an impression on	Me impresiona lo rápido que aprendes.	I'm impressed by how quickly you learn.
detalle noun	detalle	noun	detail	Este detalle cambia toda la historia.	This detail changes the whole story.
ofrecer verb	ofrecer	verb	to offer, to offer up, to provide	Me gustaría que ofrecieras más detalles.	I would like you to provide more details.
aceptar verb	aceptar	verb	to accept, to take up, to take up on	Ayer acepté el trabajo que ofrecieron.	Yesterday I accepted the job they offered.
tal adj	tal	adj	such	No puedo aceptar tal comportamiento en clase.	I can't accept such behavior in class.
recordar verb	recordar	verb	to remember, to recollect	Ayer recordamos lo aprendido en clase.	Yesterday we remembered what we had learned in class.
entonces adv	entonces	adv	then, next, thereupon, at that time, at that point	Estaba lloviendo; entonces nos quedamos en casa.	It was raining; so we stayed home.
octubre noun	octubre	noun	October	El curso termina a finales de octubre.	The course ends at the end of October.
frío adj	frío	adj	cold (having a low temperature)	Los días fríos llegan en octubre.	The cold days arrive in October.
emoción noun	emoción	noun	excitement, anticipation	Vivimos grandes emociones durante la final.	We experienced great emotions during the final.
intenso adj	intenso	adj	intense, strong	Las emociones eran muy intensas durante la final.	The emotions were very intense during the final.
frío noun	frío	noun	cold, coldness (a condition of low temperature)	Siento un frío intenso en las manos.	I feel intense cold in my hands.
oscuro adj	oscuro	adj	dark (lacking light)	La habitación era oscura y fría.	The room was dark and cold.
tema noun	tema	noun	theme; plot (of a book, film or other media)	La película tiene un tema muy oscuro.	The movie has a very dark theme.
razón noun	razón	noun	reason	Ella tiene razón sobre el tema.	She is right about the issue.
camino noun	camino	noun	way, route	Tomamos un camino más corto.	We took a shorter route.
resolver verb	resolver	verb	to resolve, to sort out, to settle, to address, to tackle, to overcome, to iron out	Necesitamos resolver este problema juntos.	We need to solve this problem together.
violencia noun	violencia	noun	violence	La violencia no resuelve problemas.	Violence does not solve problems.
contra prep	contra	prep	against, versus	Estoy en contra de la violencia.	I am against violence.
flexibilidad noun	flexibilidad	noun	flexibility	xxx	xxx
contra noun	contra	noun	con (disadvantage)	Un contra que veo es la escasa flexibilidad.	One con I see is the limited flexibility.
sentar verb	sentar	verb	to seat	Nos pidieron que sentáramos a todos juntos.	They asked us to seat everyone together.
contra adv	contra	adv	opposite, facing	Nos sentamos en contra para poder mirarnos bien.	We sat across from each other so we could look at each other properly.
concentrar verb	concentrar	verb	to concentrate	Deberíamos concentrarnos en resolver el problema.	We should focus on solving the problem.
música noun	música	noun	music	Pongo música suave para concentrarme mejor.	I put on soft music to concentrate better.
tierra noun	tierra	noun	land, ground (the part of Earth which is not covered by oceans or other bodies of water)	Los niños jugaron en la tierra mientras esperaban.	The children played in the dirt while they waited.
sueño noun	sueño	noun	sleep, slumber	Hoy tengo mucho sueño después del trabajo.	Today I am very sleepy after work.
importar verb	importar	verb	to matter, to be important [with a ‘someone’] (often translated idiomatically with English care or mind, with subject and object reversed)	No me importó lo que dijo ayer.	I didn't care what they said yesterday.
estudiante noun	estudiante	noun	student (a person who studies or learns about a particular subject)	El estudiante lee en la biblioteca cada tarde.	The student reads in the library every afternoon.
lado noun	lado	noun	side	El gato duerme a mi lado.	The cat sleeps by my side.
comenzar verb	comenzar	verb	to begin, to commence	Mañana comenzaremos el nuevo proyecto juntos.	Tomorrow we will start the new project together.
visitar verb	visitar	verb	to visit	Hemos visitado este lugar muchas veces juntos.	We have visited this place many times together.
encantar verb	encantar	verb	to charm, to enchant	Nos encantó la película que vimos.	We loved the movie we saw.
final noun	final	noun	final (last, ultimate)	Trabajamos hasta el final del día.	We work until the end of the day.
cabeza noun	cabeza	noun	head	Me duele la cabeza hoy.	My head hurts today.
doler verb	doler	verb	to hurt (to cause physical or emotional pain)	Me duele la cabeza desde ayer.	My head has been hurting since yesterday.
cantar verb	cantar	verb	to sing	No dejes de cantar por miedo.	Don't stop singing out of fear.
nudo noun	nudo	noun	knot (a looping piece of a long, flexible material), knot (nautical unit of speed)	xxx	xxx
marinero adj	marinero	adj	sailor, seaman; seafaring	Aprendimos un nudo marinero en la clase.	We learned a sailor's knot in class.
navegación noun	navegación	noun	navigation, sailing	xxx	xxx
marinero noun	marinero	noun	sailor, seaman	El marinero estudió navegación durante meses.	The sailor studied navigation for months.
cantar noun	cantar	noun	a type of shanty or popular song	Ese viejo cantar habla de marineros.	That old song speaks of sailors.
matar verb	matar	verb	to kill, slay	No quiero matar a nadie hoy.	I don't want to kill anyone today.
minuto noun	minuto	noun	minute (a unit of time equal to 60 seconds or ¹⁄₆₀ hour)	La película empieza en diez minutos.	The movie starts in ten minutes.
levantar verb	levantar	verb	to lift	Me ayudan a levantar la mesa grande.	They help me lift the big table.
cama noun	cama	noun	bed	Dejé el libro sobre la cama.	I left the book on the bed.
dado noun	dado	noun	a die or dice	Los niños juegan con dados de colores.	The children play with colored dice.
dado prep	dado	prep	given, considering	Dado que llueve, nos quedamos en casa.	Since it's raining, we are staying home.
echar verb	echar	verb	to throw, toss, cast, jettison (to release an object from one's grasp so that it moves through the air)	Echemos los dados sobre la mesa.	Let's roll the dice on the table.
romper verb	romper	verb	to break	No quiero romper la ventana hoy.	I don't want to break the window today.
bastante adj	bastante	adj	enough; sufficient	Tenemos bastantes sillas para todos.	We have enough chairs for everyone.
bastante adv	bastante	adv	quite, rather, pretty, fairly	Ella habla bastante rápido en clase.	She speaks quite fast in class.
cerca adv	cerca	adv	close, near, around, about, nearly, nigh (referring to quantity or time-related)	Estábamos cerca de terminar el proyecto.	We were close to finishing the project.
pintar verb	pintar	verb	to paint (to apply paint to)	¿Puedes pintar la puerta hoy, por favor?	Can you paint the door today, please?
cerca noun	cerca	noun	fence (a thin artificial barrier that separates two pieces of land or a house perimeter)	Pintamos la cerca vieja de blanco ayer.	We painted the old fence white yesterday.
mentira noun	mentira	noun	lie, trick, falsity	Aprendimos que la mentira duele.	We learned that lying hurts.
menudo adj	menudo	adj	what (a/an) (intensifier, followed by a noun)	Menudas mentiras cuenta ese tipo cuando habla.	What big lies that guy tells when he talks.
probar verb	probar	verb	to prove	No pudieron probar lo que decían.	They couldn't prove what they were saying.
menudo noun	menudo	noun	a traditional Mexican spicy soup made with tripe	Probé menudo blanco durante las fiestas.	I tried white menudo during the holidays.
bajo adj	bajo	adj	short (of little height)	Ella es bastante baja.	She is quite short.
bajo adv	bajo	adv	low	Habla más bajo, por favor.	Speak more quietly, please.
puntual adj	puntual	adj	punctual, on time	El tren fue puntual esta mañana.	The train was on time this morning.
eléctrico adj	eléctrico	adj	electric, electrical	El tren eléctrico llega puntual.	The electric train arrives on time.
bajo noun	bajo	noun	bass (sound, voice or instrument)	Compré un bajo eléctrico para aprender.	I bought an electric bass to learn on.
esconder verb	esconder	verb	to hide	No intentes esconder nunca la verdad.	Never try to hide the truth.
bajo prep	bajo	prep	under (in both literal and figurative senses)	El gato se escondió bajo la cama.	The cat hid under the bed.
vecina noun	vecina	noun	female equivalent of vecino	xxx	xxx
chica noun	chica	noun	female equivalent of chico: girl	Esa chica es mi vecina nueva.	That girl is my new neighbor.
carretera noun	carretera	noun	road, highway	Vivimos cerca de una carretera tranquila.	We live near a quiet road.
accidente noun	accidente	noun	accident (unexpected event with negative consequences)	Hubo un accidente en la carretera esta mañana.	There was an accident on the road this morning.
taza noun	taza	noun	cup, mug	Compré dos tazas nuevas para la cocina.	I bought two new cups for the kitchen.
chocolate noun	chocolate	noun	hot chocolate (drink made by dissolving chocolate in milk or water)	Ella pidió una taza de chocolate.	She asked for a cup of hot chocolate.
calentar verb	calentar	verb	to heat, to warm up (cause an increase in temperature)	¿Podrías calentar un poco el chocolate?	Could you warm the chocolate up a bit?
sol noun	sol	noun	sun	El sol calienta la tierra cada mañana.	The sun warms the ground every morning.
decidir verb	decidir	verb	to decide, to make up one's mind, to determine, to choose to	Espero que decidas lo mejor pronto.	I hope you decide what's best soon.
serenidad noun	serenidad	noun	serenity	xxx	xxx
sino conj	sino	conj	"but (after a negative clause) (i.e., ""but rather"", ""but only"", or ""but rather only"")"	No me llamó, sino que me escribió.	They didn't call me, but instead wrote to me.
fascinar verb	fascinar	verb	to fascinate	Espero que te fascine este libro.	I hope this book fascinates you.
animal adj	animal	adj	animal	El comportamiento animal nos fascina a todos.	Animal behavior fascinates us all.
animal noun	animal	noun	animal	Los animales necesitan agua y comida.	Animals need water and food.
compartir verb	compartir	verb	to share	Me gusta compartir libros con amigos.	I like sharing books with friends.
traer verb	traer	verb	to bring, to fetch	Hemos traído comida para compartir.	We have brought food to share.
ayuda noun	ayuda	noun	help, aid	Necesitamos más ayuda para terminar la tarea.	We need more help to finish the task.
decimal adj	decimal	adj	decimal	xxx	xxx
punto noun	punto	noun	point (a decimal mark)	En inglés, se usa el punto para decimales.	In English, a period is used for decimals.
punto intj	punto	intj	that's it!	Yo decido esto, punto.	I decide this, period.
llorar verb	llorar	verb	to cry, to weep	Ella lloraba mientras veía la película.	She was crying while she was watching the movie.
pueblo noun	pueblo	noun	town, village	Visitamos un pueblo con casas blancas.	We visited a town with white houses.
casar verb	casar	verb	to marry, wed someone to (unite two others in wedlock)	El juez los va a casar el sábado.	The judge is going to marry them on Saturday.
río noun	río	noun	river	Siguen el curso del río para encontrar el pueblo.	They follow the course of the river to find the town.
ocupado adj	ocupado	adj	occupied	Ella está ocupada toda la mañana.	She is busy all morning.
auto noun	auto	noun	car, automobile	Prefiero autos pequeños para la ciudad.	I prefer small cars for the city.
fuerte adj	fuerte	adj	strong	Me gusta el café fuerte por la mañana.	I like strong coffee in the morning.
golpear verb	golpear	verb	to hit, to knock, to tap	Por favor, no me golpees nunca.	Please, never hit me.
fuerte adv	fuerte	adv	hard	Golpea fuerte la puerta si no abren.	Knock hard on the door if they don't open.
fuerte noun	fuerte	noun	fort, stronghold	Había un fuerte en la frontera.	There was a fort on the border.
luz noun	luz	noun	light	La luz del sol entra por la ventana.	The sunlight comes in through the window.
recibir verb	recibir	verb	to receive, get	Por favor, recibe a los invitados.	Please, welcome the guests.
late verb	late	verb	inflection of latir:, second-person singular imperative, third-person singular present indicative	xxx	xxx
sesenta num	sesenta	num	sixty	Mi abuela cumple sesenta años hoy.	My grandmother turns sixty today.
corazón noun	corazón	noun	heart (organ of the body)	El corazón late unas sesenta veces por minuto.	The heart beats about sixty times per minute.
cierto adj	cierto	adj	true	No es cierto lo que dijeron.	What they said isn't true.
cierto det	cierto	det	a certain, a specific	Busco cierta camisa que vi ayer.	I'm looking for a specific shirt I saw yesterday.
ocurrir verb	ocurrir	verb	to happen, to occur	¿Qué ocurrió durante la reunión?	What happened during the meeting?
teléfono noun	teléfono	noun	telephone (a telecommunication device used for two-way talking with another person)	Dejé mi teléfono sobre la mesa.	I left my phone on the table.
conseguir verb	conseguir	verb	to achieve, succeed in, reach, accomplish, attain	Ella consiguió terminar el proyecto a tiempo.	She managed to finish the project on time.
construir verb	construir	verb	to build	Si construyes bien, durará muchos años.	If you build well, it will last many years.
estadio noun	estadio	noun	stadium	Construyeron un nuevo estadio en el barrio.	They built a new stadium in the neighborhood.
policía noun	policía	noun	Civility, polity, public order, police, fineness, neatness, urbanity	Había mucha policía en el estadio.	There were a lot of police at the stadium.
manera noun	manera	noun	way; manner; method; style	Prefiero trabajar de manera tranquila por la mañana.	I prefer to work calmly in the morning.
viaje noun	viaje	noun	voyage	El viaje fue largo y tranquilo.	The trip was long and uneventful.
cuanto pron	cuanto	pron	whatever quantity, as much, however much	Toma cuanto necesites para el viaje.	Take whatever you need for the trip.
cuanto det	cuanto	det	as much [of]; as many; however much; however many	Toma cuanto café necesites para estudiar.	Take as much coffee as you need to study.
cuanto adv	cuanto	adv	as much; however much; in whatever quantity	Cuanto más estudias, más aprendes.	The more you study, the more you learn.
bicicleta noun	bicicleta	noun	bicycle, pushbike, cycle	A los niños les encanta su bicicleta nueva.	The children love their new bicycle.
vender verb	vender	verb	to sell	Ayer vendí mi bicicleta antigua.	Yesterday I sold my old bicycle.
existir verb	existir	verb	to exist	Existen muchas formas de aprender.	There are many ways to learn.
hacia prep	hacia	prep	toward, towards	El perro corrió hacia la puerta.	The dog ran toward the door.
guerra noun	guerra	noun	war, warfare	Nadie gana realmente en una guerra.	Nobody really wins in a war.
traje noun	traje	noun	suit	El traje me queda un poco grande.	The suit is a bit big on me.
varios adj	varios	adj	various, several	Traje varios libros para estudiar.	I brought several books to study.
varios det	varios	det	various, several	Compré varios libros para estudiar hoy.	I bought several books to study today.
histórico adj	histórico	adj	historical (concerning recorded history)	Hicimos un estudio histórico de la ciudad.	We conducted a historical study of the city.
español adj	español	adj	Spanish (from or native to Spain)	Visitamos una ciudad española histórica.	We visited a historic Spanish city.
español noun	español	noun	Spaniard (man)	Ese español trabaja como profesor de música.	That Spaniard works as a music teacher.
reparar verb	reparar	verb	to notice; to realize; to become aware	Ella reparó en mí demasiado tarde.	She noticed me too late.
costar verb	costar	verb	to cost	¿Cuánto costará reparar el teléfono?	How much will it cost to repair the phone?
médico noun	médico	noun	doctor	Quiero hablar con mi médico.	I want to speak with my doctor.
temprano adj	temprano	adj	early	Tenemos una reunión mañana temprano.	We have an early meeting tomorrow.
temprano adv	temprano	adv	early, early on	Quedamos en vernos mañana temprano.	We agreed to meet early tomorrow.
público adj	público	adj	public	La biblioteca pública abre muy temprano.	The public library opens very early.
planta noun	planta	noun	floor, level (of a high building) plant (an organism of the kingdom Plantae) plant (factory) sole sole (bottom of a shoe or boot)	xxx	xxx
crecer verb	crecer	verb	to grow	Las plantas crecen mejor con sol.	Plants grow better with sunlight.
público noun	público	noun	public	Nuestro público crece cada semana.	Our audience grows every week.
avance noun	avance	noun	advance	Necesitamos más avances en medicina pública.	We need more advances in public medicine.
médico adj	médico	adj	medical	Los avances médicos mejoraron muchos tratamientos.	Medical advances improved many treatments.
cara noun	cara	noun	face (one's facial expression)	Le vi la cara de miedo.	I saw the fear on their face.
conducir verb	conducir	verb	to drive; to conduct	Mañana conduciremos durante muchas horas.	Tomorrow we will drive for many hours.
eficiente adj	eficiente	adj	efficient	Necesitamos un sistema más eficiente.	We need a more efficient system.
japonés adj	japonés	adj	of Japan; Japanese	Compramos un coche japonés muy eficiente.	We bought a very efficient Japanese car.
japonés noun	japonés	noun	a Japanese person	Un japonés trabaja en mi oficina.	A Japanese man works in my office.
enseñar verb	enseñar	verb	to teach	Me gusta enseñar a los niños.	I like teaching children.
nadar verb	nadar	verb	to swim (move through water)	Estábamos nadando mientras el sol salía.	We were swimming while the sun was rising.
cansado adj	cansado	adj	tired, weary, wearied	Seguimos cansadas, pero terminaremos el proyecto.	We're still tired, but we'll finish the project.
muerte noun	muerte	noun	death (the cessation of life)	La muerte es parte de la vida.	Death is part of life.
cuatro num	cuatro	num	four	Tengo cuatro hermanos y una hermana.	I have four brothers and one sister.
cuatro noun	cuatro	noun	a four-stringed guitar with the first string a fifth below, instead of a fourth above, the second	Compramos un cuatro para la clase.	We bought a cuatro for the class.
mío pron	mío	pron	mine; of mine	Lo mío es estudiar por la mañana.	Studying in the morning is my thing.
mío det	mío	det	mine, my; of mine	Esos amigos míos siempre llegan tarde.	Those friends of mine are always late.
plaza noun	plaza	noun	plaza, town square	Nos vemos en la plaza del pueblo esta tarde.	See you at the town square this afternoon.
chico adj	chico	adj	small	Ese pueblo chico tiene una plaza.	That small town has a square.
chico noun	chico	noun	boy; kid	El chico lee un libro cada tarde.	The boy reads a book every afternoon.
desear verb	desear	verb	to wish	Ella desea aprender español este año.	She wants to learn Spanish this year.
rico adj	rico	adj	rich (having a lot of money and possessions)	Los países ricos deben ayudar más.	The rich countries should help more.
lleno adj	lleno	adj	full	El vaso está lleno de agua.	The glass is full of water.
contacto noun	contacto	noun	contact	Perdí el contacto con ella.	I lost contact with her.
mantener verb	mantener	verb	to keep	Yo mantengo contacto con mis amigos.	I keep in touch with my friends.
alerta adj	alerta	adj	alert, vigilant	Ella se mantiene alerta en la carretera.	She stays alert on the road.
observar verb	observar	verb	to observe, to eye	Observamos el comportamiento de los animales.	We observe the behavior of animals.
alerta adv	alerta	adv	alertly	Observaba alerta a los niños que jugaban.	I was watching the children who were playing, on alert.
alerta noun	alerta	noun	alarm	Recibí una alerta en el teléfono.	I received an alert on my phone.
sacar verb	sacar	verb	to put out, to get out (e.g. a public statement, an APB, a release of media or entertainment)	La policía sacó una alerta pública.	The police issued a public alert.
extranjero adj	extranjero	adj	foreign	Me encanta aprender idiomas extranjeros.	I love learning foreign languages.
extranjero noun	extranjero	noun	foreigner	Escuchamos al extranjero contar historias de viaje.	We listened to the foreigner tell travel stories.
juego noun	juego	noun	play	El juego es importante para aprender.	Play is important for learning.
pelo noun	pelo	noun	hair (a single hair)	Ella tiene tres pelos blancos.	She has three white hairs.
plan noun	plan	noun	scheme (systematic plan of future action)	Tenemos un plan para mañana.	We have a plan for tomorrow.
posible adj	posible	adj	possible	Haremos todo lo posible mañana.	We will do everything we can tomorrow.
caminar verb	caminar	verb	to walk	Estamos caminando hacia la estación ahora.	We are walking toward the station now.
lograr verb	lograr	verb	to get, to obtain	No logré terminar el proyecto ayer.	I didn't manage to finish the project yesterday.
tomé verb	tomé	verb	first-person singular preterite indicative of tomar	xxx	xxx
foto noun	foto	noun	photo, photograph	Tomé una foto del atardecer.	I took a photo of the sunset.
hija noun	hija	noun	daughter; female equivalent of hijo	Mi hija aprende a leer.	My daughter is learning to read.
próximo adj	próximo	adj	near	¿Hay algún baño próximo por aquí?	Is there a bathroom around here?
verano noun	verano	noun	summer	En verano, me gusta nadar.	In summer, I like to swim.
leche noun	leche	noun	milk	Me gusta la leche fría.	I like cold milk.
caso noun	caso	noun	case	En ese caso, cambiaremos el plan.	In that case, we'll change the plan.
campo noun	campo	noun	countryside, country	Vamos al campo este fin de semana.	We're going to the countryside this weekend.
azur adj	azur	adj	azure, azure (sky-blue coloured)	xxx	xxx
gritar verb	gritar	verb	to shout, to scream, to cry out, to call out	Si sigues gritando, te van a sacar.	If you keep shouting, they're going to kick you out.
contener verb	contener	verb	to contain	Contengo la emoción para no gritar.	I hold back my emotion so I don't shout.
llave noun	llave	noun	key (in heraldry)	El campo de azur contiene una llave antigua.	The azure field contains an ancient key.
suficiente adj	suficiente	adj	sufficient, enough	Hay sillas suficientes para todos.	There are enough chairs for everyone.
aunque conj	aunque	conj	though, although, even though, albeit	Me quedé, aunque estaba muy cansado.	I stayed, even though I was very tired.
completo adj	completo	adj	full, complete	El curso está completo por ahora.	The course is full for now.
partido adj	partido	adj	broken	El vaso está partido en dos.	The glass is split in two.
partido noun	partido	noun	party	Hay partidos pequeños y partidos grandes.	There are small parties and big parties.
traducir verb	traducir	verb	to translate (from one language into another)	Ayer traduje la carta completa.	Yesterday I translated the entire letter.
responder verb	responder	verb	to answer, to reply	Hemos respondido tarde, lo siento.	We responded late, I'm sorry.
bonito adj	bonito	adj	pretty, cute	Ella tiene una sonrisa muy bonita.	She has a very pretty smile.
fresca adj	fresca	adj	feminine singular of fresco	xxx	xxx
diariamente adv	diariamente	adv	daily (every day)	Ella lee libros de historia diariamente en casa.	She reads history books daily at home.
verdura noun	verdura	noun	vegetable	Me gusta comer verdura fresca diariamente.	I like to eat fresh vegetables daily.
fresco adj	fresco	adj	fresh	Las verduras frescas siempre saben mejor.	Fresh vegetables always taste better.
fresco noun	fresco	noun	strong breeze	Al atardecer sopló un fresco bastante fuerte.	At dusk, a rather strong cool breeze blew.
mercado noun	mercado	noun	market	Compramos frutas frescas en el mercado.	We bought fresh fruit at the market.
bonito noun	bonito	noun	tuna; bonito	Compré bonito fresco en el mercado.	I bought fresh bonito at the market.
nacer verb	nacer	verb	to be born, to sprout, to begin to grow; to hatch (out)	Si naciera otra vez, estudiaría música.	If I were born again, I would study music.
respuesta noun	respuesta	noun	reply, response, answer	La respuesta del profesor me ayudó.	The teacher's answer helped me.
vuestro pron	vuestro	pron	yours	¿Esta casa es vuestra o nuestra?	Is this house yours or ours?
vuestro det	vuestro	det	yours, your, to you	¿Dónde está vuestro profesor hoy?	Where is your teacher today?
tienda noun	tienda	noun	tent	La lluvia golpeaba la tienda mientras contábamos historias.	The rain was beating against the tent while we were telling stories.
robar verb	robar	verb	to rob	Ella habría robado para comer.	She would have stolen in order to eat.
andar verb	andar	verb	to walk, to go	Me gusta andar en bicicleta los fines de semana.	I like to ride a bike on weekends.
caracol noun	caracol	noun	snail	Los caracoles salen cuando llueve.	Snails come out when it rains.
lento adj	lento	adj	slow	El caracol es muy lento.	The snail is very slow.
andar noun	andar	noun	walk, pace, gait	Su andar es lento y cansado.	Their gait is slow and weary.
sorprender verb	sorprender	verb	to surprise	Voy a sorprender a mi hermano.	I'm going to surprise my brother.
realidad noun	realidad	noun	reality	La realidad a veces sorprende mucho.	Reality is sometimes very surprising.
canción noun	canción	noun	song	Esa canción me recuerda a casa.	That song reminds me of home.
edad noun	edad	noun	age	A esa edad, aprenden a leer.	At that age, they learn to read.
noticia noun	noticia	noun	notice	Recibí una noticia importante hoy.	I received important news today.
ropa noun	ropa	noun	garment, clothing, clothes, robes	Me gusta la ropa cómoda.	I like comfortable clothing.
preparar verb	preparar	verb	to prepare	Siempre preparo café antes de estudiar.	I always make coffee before studying.
e conj	e	conj	and	Padres e hijos comen juntos hoy.	Parents and children are eating together today.
subir verb	subir	verb	to go up or come up	Cuando subas, trae las llaves.	When you go upstairs, bring the keys.
cuidado intj	cuidado	intj	watch out!	¡Cuidado con los coches al cruzar!	Watch out for cars when crossing!
interponer verb	interponer	verb	to come (between), to stand (between), to stand (in the way of), to get in the way of (+ en, entre or en el camino de) to file (a lawsuit), lodge (an appeal, a complaint) to interpose to intervene	xxx	xxx
amparo noun	amparo	noun	aid, relief exemption, pardon protection shelter, sanctuary	xxx	xxx
recurso noun	recurso	noun	writ	El abogado interpuso un recurso de amparo.	The lawyer filed a writ of amparo.
requerir verb	requerir	verb	to require, need	Este proyecto requiere más tiempo y recursos.	This project requires more time and resources.
durabilidad noun	durabilidad	noun	durability	xxx	xxx
cuidado noun	cuidado	noun	care (maintenance, upkeep)	Los muebles requieren cuidado para su durabilidad.	The furniture requires care to ensure its durability.
examen noun	examen	noun	exam, examination, test	Ella estudia cada día para el examen de historia.	She studies every day for the history exam.
gana noun	gana	noun	desire (to do something)	Ella estudia sin ganas hoy.	She is studying without enthusiasm today.
situación noun	situación	noun	situation, scenario, picture	Entendió la situación después de hablar.	He understood the situation after talking.
niña noun	niña	noun	girl, female equivalent of niño	Esa niña lee un cuento bonito.	That girl is reading a nice story.
coger verb	coger	verb	to take, catch, hold, to get, to seize	Él no suele coger el teléfono.	He doesn't usually answer the phone.
cerrar verb	cerrar	verb	to close, to shut	Siempre cierro la ventana por la noche.	I always close the window at night.
esposa noun	esposa	noun	wife	Mi esposa siempre cocina muy bien.	My wife always cooks very well.
negro noun	negro	noun	black (the color perceived in the absence of light)	Me gusta el negro para la ropa.	I like black for clothes.
negro adj	negro	adj	black (absorbing all light and reflecting none; dark and hueless)	Pinté la pared de color negro.	I painted the wall black.
panadería noun	panadería	noun	bakery	La panadería abre temprano todos los días.	The bakery opens early every day.
pan noun	pan	noun	bread (food made by baking cereal dough)	Compré pan fresco en la panadería.	I bought fresh bread at the bakery.
anoche adv	anoche	adv	last night	Anoche llovió mucho en la ciudad.	Last night it rained a lot in the city.
regresar verb	regresar	verb	to return, go back, come back	¿Podemos regresar por el camino?	Can we go back along the way?
mostrar verb	mostrar	verb	to show (have somebody see something)	Te voy a mostrar las fotos antiguas.	I'm going to show you the old photos.
listo adj	listo	adj	clever, smart (with ser)	Soy listo, pero sigo aprendiendo cada día.	I'm smart, but I keep learning every day.
comparar verb	comparar	verb	to compare	Estoy comparando teléfonos para mi trabajo.	I'm comparing phones for my job.
marca noun	marca	noun	brand (of clothing etc.)	Comparé varias marcas antes de comprar.	I compared several brands before buying.
fuera adv	fuera	adv	outside	Dejé la bicicleta fuera de la casa.	I left the bicycle outside the house.
listo intj	listo	intj	get set! (before starting a race)	Para empezar el juego, gritaron: ¡En sus marcas, listos, fuera!	To start the game, they shouted: On your marks, get set, go!
manzana noun	manzana	noun	apple	Me gusta comer una manzana roja.	I like to eat a red apple.
documental noun	documental	noun	documentary	xxx	xxx
televisión noun	televisión	noun	television (collectively, the programs broadcast via the medium of television)	En la televisión vimos un documental histórico interesante.	On TV we watched an interesting historical documentary.
viajar verb	viajar	verb	to travel, journey	¿Has viajado alguna vez al extranjero?	Have you ever traveled abroad?
cuarto adj	cuarto	adj	fourth	Es la cuarta vez que te llamo.	This is the fourth time I've called you.
cuarto noun	cuarto	noun	fourth (in a series)	Soy el cuarto de cinco hermanos.	I'm the fourth of five siblings.
libre adj	libre	adj	free (without obligations)	Mañana por la tarde estoy libre.	Tomorrow afternoon I'm free.
preocupar verb	preocupar	verb	to worry, to concern, to trouble, to be worrisome to, to preoccupy	Me preocupa el examen de mañana.	I'm worried about tomorrow's exam.
reloj noun	reloj	noun	clock	Necesito un reloj para la cocina.	I need a clock for the kitchen.
docena noun	docena	noun	dozen	Me queda media docena de manzanas.	I have half a dozen apples left.
huevo noun	huevo	noun	egg	Compramos media docena de huevos frescos.	We bought half a dozen fresh eggs.
zapato noun	zapato	noun	shoe	Mis zapatos nuevos me quedan grandes.	My new shoes are too big for me.
dolor noun	dolor	noun	pain, ache, aching soreness, tenderness (physical)	Tengo un fuerte dolor de cabeza hoy.	I have a severe headache today.
confiar verb	confiar	verb	to trust	Siempre confío en mis amigos.	I always trust my friends.
capaz adj	capaz	adj	able, capable	Ella es capaz de resolver el problema.	She is capable of solving the problem.
capaz adv	capaz	adv	maybe, perhaps	Capaz que ya no vengan.	Maybe they won't come anymore.
demás adj	demás	adj	other, remaining	Los demás estudiantes llegaron tarde hoy.	The other students arrived late today.
demás pron	demás	pron	others, other ones	Ellas llegaron temprano, antes que las demás.	They arrived early, before the others.
considerar verb	considerar	verb	to consider, to regard, to see, to look, to view	Considero importante escuchar a los demás.	I consider it important to listen to others.
abrí verb	abrí	verb	first-person singular preterite indicative inflection of abrir: second-person singular voseo imperative 	xxx	xxx
caja noun	caja	noun	box, case	Abrí la caja con cuidado.	I opened the box carefully.
unido adj	unido	adj	united	La clase está más unida este año.	The class is more united this year.
diferente adj	diferente	adj	different	Cada persona aprende de manera diferente.	Each person learns differently.
explicar verb	explicar	verb	to explain	Si me explicas, te entenderé mejor.	If you explain it to me, I will understand you better.
duro adj	duro	adj	hard	El pan está duro esta mañana.	The bread is hard this morning.
practicar verb	practicar	verb	to practice	Deberíamos practicar más antes del examen.	We should practice more before the exam.
rápidamente adv	rápidamente	adv	rapidly, quickly	El niño aprendió rápidamente a leer.	The boy learned to read quickly.
cliente noun	cliente	noun	client	El cliente pidió la cuenta rápidamente.	The customer asked for the bill quickly.
presentación noun	presentación	noun	presentation	Necesitamos preparar la presentación para el cliente.	We need to prepare the presentation for the client.
orquesta noun	orquesta	noun	orchestra (of classical music)	La orquesta practicó durante horas para la presentación.	The orchestra practiced for hours for the presentation.
batuta noun	batuta	noun	baton (stick used by conductors), rule, sway	xxx	xxx
director noun	director	noun	conductor (of a musical ensemble)	El director de la orquesta levantó la batuta.	The conductor raised the baton.
dispuesto adj	dispuesto	adj	willing, ready, game, down	Estamos dispuestos a trabajar juntos.	We are willing to work together.
duro noun	duro	noun	hardball (i.e. a no-nonsense attitude)	Los directores buscaron a un duro dispuesto a decir no.	The directors looked for a tough person willing to say no.
vino noun	vino	noun	wine (an alcoholic beverage made by fermenting grape juice, with an ABV ranging from 5.5–16%)	Compraron dos vinos para la fiesta.	They bought two wines for the party.
seis num	seis	num	six	La clase empieza a las seis.	The class starts at six.
cita noun	cita	noun	date (romantic outing)	Busco tener una cita con alguien amable.	I'm looking to go on a date with someone kind.
cancelar verb	cancelar	verb	to cancel, call off	Ella canceló su cita médica ayer.	She canceled her medical appointment yesterday.
falta noun	falta	noun	lack, shortage	Por falta de tiempo, cancelaron la reunión.	Due to lack of time, they canceled the meeting.
despertar verb	despertar	verb	to wake	Mi hermano se despertó tarde hoy.	My brother woke up late today.
despertar noun	despertar	noun	awakening	El despertar de la ciudad fue lento.	The city's awakening was slow.
extraño adj	extraño	adj	strange, unusual, odd, weird, bizarre, uncanny, rare, peculiar, freaky, freakish, freak, curious	La película me pareció extraña.	The movie seemed strange to me.
documentación noun	documentación	noun	check-in documentation	xxx	xxx
mil num	mil	num	thousand	Tengo mil preguntas sobre esto.	I have a thousand questions about this.
usado adj	usado	adj	used	Ayer compré un coche usado.	Yesterday I bought a used car.
valer verb	valer	verb	to be worth	¿Cuánto vale esa bicicleta roja usada?	How much is that used red bicycle worth?
prometer verb	prometer	verb	to promise	Prometimos llamar en cuanto llegáramos.	We promised to call as soon as we arrived.
cielo noun	cielo	noun	sky	Esta noche el cielo promete lluvia.	Tonight the sky promises rain.
opinión noun	opinión	noun	opinion	Su opinión sobre el tema importa.	Their opinion on the matter matters.
pesar verb	pesar	verb	to weigh oneself	Ella se pesa una vez a la semana.	She weighs herself once a week.
pesar noun	pesar	noun	grief, regret, chagrin	Para mi pesar, llegaron tarde.	To my regret, they arrived late.
golpe noun	golpe	noun	hit, blow, strike	Recibió un golpe fuerte en la cabeza.	They received a strong blow to the head.
carne noun	carne	noun	flesh, the soft part of a body which covers the bones	El golpe le abrió la carne.	The blow split their flesh open.
funcionar verb	funcionar	verb	to work, to function	Hemos probado y ya funciona bien.	We've tested it and it now works well.
permitir verb	permitir	verb	to allow, permit	¿Podrías permitir que él hable?	Could you allow him to speak?
mar noun	mar	noun	sea	Me gusta nadar en el mar.	I like to swim in the sea.
alemán adj	alemán	adj	German (relating to the German language)	Hicimos un examen de lengua alemana.	We took a German language exam.
alemán noun	alemán	noun	German (language)	Estudio alemán desde hace dos años.	I've been studying German for two years.
calor noun	calor	noun	heat	Hoy hace mucho calor aquí.	It's very hot here today.
autobús noun	autobús	noun	bus, coach	Espero el autobús todas las mañanas.	I wait for the bus every morning.
claro adj	claro	adj	clear	Quiero instrucciones claras para todos.	I want clear instructions for everyone.
claro adv	claro	adv	certainly, naturally, of course	Sí, claro, entiendo lo que dices.	Yes, of course, I understand what you're saying.
claro noun	claro	noun	sunny spell	Vimos un claro en el cielo.	We saw a break in the clouds.
claro intj	claro	intj	of course; for sure; sure (indicates enthusiastic agreement)	Pero claro, cuenta conmigo para mañana.	But of course, count on me for tomorrow.
jardín noun	jardín	noun	garden	Los niños juegan en el jardín.	The children play in the garden.
convertir verb	convertir	verb	to convert	Quiero convertir esta idea en realidad.	I want to turn this idea into reality.
lejos adv	lejos	adv	far	Mi casa está lejos de aquí.	My house is far from here.
enfermo adj	enfermo	adj	sick, ill	Andaba enfermo, pero mejoró con el tratamiento.	He was sick, but he got better with the treatment.
cooperativa noun	cooperativa	noun	cooperative	xxx	xxx
ingresar verb	ingresar	verb	to join	Nos gustaría ingresar a la cooperativa del barrio.	We would like to join the neighborhood cooperative.
marina noun	marina	noun	navy	Ella quiere ingresar a la marina.	She wants to join the navy.
servir verb	servir	verb	to serve (to be in military service)	Ella quiere servir a su país en la marina.	She wants to serve her country in the navy.
sonar verb	sonar	verb	to sound, to ring	El teléfono suena cada cinco minutos.	The phone rings every five minutes.
actualizar verb	actualizar	verb	to bring to fruition, to actualize to refresh, to reload to update	xxx	xxx
tu det	tu	det	apocopic form of tuyo, your	xxx	xxx
seguridad noun	seguridad	noun	safety, security	Para tu seguridad, usa el cinturón.	For your safety, wear your seat belt.
sonar noun	sonar	noun	sonar (a device that uses hydrophones to locate objects underwater)	La marina actualizó sus sonares para mejorar la seguridad.	The navy upgraded its sonar systems to improve safety.
jamás adv	jamás	adv	never	Jamás olvidaré lo que hiciste.	I'll never forget what you did.
loco adj	loco	adj	crazy, insane, mad, nuts (asserting that something is out of place in the head)	Mi hermana está loca.	My sister is crazy.
loco noun	loco	noun	a crazy person; a madman	Esa loca hablaba sola en la estación.	That crazy woman was talking to herself at the station.
suerte noun	suerte	noun	luck, fortune	Por suerte, llegamos a tiempo.	Luckily, we arrived on time.
suerte intj	suerte	intj	good luck!	¡Suerte en el partido de hoy!	Good luck in today's game!
caballo noun	caballo	noun	horse	El caballo corre rápido por el campo.	The horse runs fast across the field.
domingo noun	domingo	noun	Sunday	El domingo pasado llovió mucho.	It rained a lot last Sunday.
dentro adv	dentro	adv	inside (for space)	Los niños juegan dentro cuando llueve.	The children play indoors when it rains.
voz noun	voz	noun	voice	Su voz era suave y clara.	Their voice was soft and clear.
regalo noun	regalo	noun	present, gift	Le compré un bonito regalo ayer.	I bought them a nice gift yesterday.
faltar verb	faltar	verb	to be lacking, to lack, to not have (of a person)	Me faltarán recursos si no consigo el trabajo pronto.	I'll be short on resources if I don't get the job soon.
cometer verb	cometer	verb	to commit	Nunca debes cometer el mismo error.	You must never make the same mistake.
lunes noun	lunes	noun	Monday	El lunes empiezo un nuevo trabajo.	On Monday I start a new job.
avión noun	avión	noun	aeroplane, airplane, plane	Me gusta viajar en avión.	I like to travel by plane.
secreto adj	secreto	adj	secret	Quieren mantener el proyecto secreto hasta mañana.	They want to keep the project secret until tomorrow.
secreto noun	secreto	noun	a secret	¿Puedes mantener un secreto, por favor?	Can you keep a secret, please?
mayoría noun	mayoría	noun	majority	La mayoría de las veces tienes razón.	Most of the time you're right.
té noun	té	noun	tea	Me gusta tomar té por la mañana.	I like to drink tea in the morning.
señor noun	señor	noun	mister, sir, lord (title conferred on a married or older male)	El autobús esperó al señor mayor.	The bus waited for the elderly gentleman.
señor adj	señor	adj	great big; whopping	Tuvimos un señor problema ayer.	We had a major problem yesterday.
par adj	par	adj	even (divisible by two)	Cuatro y seis son pares.	Four and six are even numbers.
par noun	par	noun	pair (two of the same or similar items that go together)	Compré un par de zapatos negros.	I bought a pair of black shoes.
pobre adj	pobre	adj	poor (pitiable, pitiful)	¡Pobre chico, lo dejaron solo!	Poor boy, they left him alone!
vestido adj	vestido	adj	dressed	Los niños ya están vestidos para salir.	The children are already dressed to go out.
vestido noun	vestido	noun	dress	Ella compró un vestido rojo hoy.	She bought a red dress today.
mamá noun	mamá	noun	mum, mom	Quiero llamar a mi mamá ahora.	I want to call my mom now.
celebrar verb	celebrar	verb	to celebrate	Celebra tus avances, aunque sean pequeños.	Celebrate your progress, even if it's small.
tras prep	tras	prep	after, following, in the wake of	Tras el examen, nos fuimos a celebrar.	After the exam, we went to celebrate.
diccionario noun	diccionario	noun	dictionary, wordbook	Aprendí nuevas palabras con ese diccionario.	I learned new words with that dictionary.
muerto adj	muerto	adj	dead	El teléfono estaba muerto anoche.	The phone was dead last night.
muerto noun	muerto	noun	a dead person, deceased	Contaron los nombres de los muertos.	They counted the names of the dead.
allá adv	allá	adv	there, over there, thither, yonder (in a direction away from the speaker and the listener)	Mira, la tienda está allá.	Look, the store is over there.
prestar verb	prestar	verb	to lend	Mi hermano me prestó su bicicleta ayer.	My brother lent me his bicycle yesterday.
asunto noun	asunto	noun	matter, issue, business	El asunto se resolvió sin problemas.	The matter was resolved without any problems.
sonreír verb	sonreír	verb	to smile	Deberías sonreír más a menudo.	You should smile more often.
bebé noun	bebé	noun	baby	Ese bebé sonríe cuando escucha música.	That baby smiles when they hear music.
aire noun	aire	noun	air; wind	Abre la ventana para que entre aire.	Open the window to let air in.
aire intj	aire	intj	get out; begone; away!	¡Aire, por favor, necesito pasar!	Make way, please, I need to get through!
cortar verb	cortar	verb	to cut	Si cortaras la fruta, comeríamos antes.	If you cut the fruit, we would eat sooner.
equipo noun	equipo	noun	team	Nuestro equipo ganó el partido ayer.	Our team won the game yesterday.
juguete noun	juguete	noun	toy (something to play with)	El perro encontró un juguete viejo.	The dog found an old toy.
meter verb	meter	verb	to put in, insert	Ella metió los juguetes en la caja.	She put the toys in the box.
condición noun	condición	noun	condition	Aceptaron las condiciones y comenzaron el proyecto.	They accepted the conditions and began the project.
incluso adv	incluso	adv	even	Aprende rápido, incluso sin ayuda.	They learn quickly, even without help.
bajar verb	bajar	verb	to go down, come down	Bajamos del autobús en la plaza.	We got off the bus at the square.
atención noun	atención	noun	attention	Necesita atención médica lo antes posible.	They need medical attention as soon as possible.
novia noun	novia	noun	female equivalent of novio, girlfriend	Busco un regalo para mi novia.	I'm looking for a gift for my girlfriend.
colegio noun	colegio	noun	school	Mañana vamos al colegio temprano.	Tomorrow we're going to school early.
éxito noun	éxito	noun	success	Nuestro equipo celebró el éxito del proyecto.	Our team celebrated the success of the project.
peligroso adj	peligroso	adj	perilous, dangerous	Conducir de noche es peligroso.	Driving at night is dangerous.
montaña noun	montaña	noun	mountain	Quiero vivir cerca de las montañas.	I want to live near the mountains.
nieve noun	nieve	noun	snow	Me encanta la nieve fresca.	I love fresh snow.
quitar verb	quitar	verb	to remove, to take away, to take down, to take off, to pull off, to pull out, to clear, to clear away, to strip, to strip away	Por favor, quita la mesa ahora.	Please, clear the table now.
chino adj	chino	adj	Chinese	Compramos té chino en el mercado.	We bought Chinese tea at the market.
chino noun	chino	noun	Chinese person	La china es médica en Madrid.	The Chinese woman is a doctor in Madrid.
sentido noun	sentido	noun	sense, meaning	En ese sentido, estoy de acuerdo.	In that sense, I agree.
amiga noun	amiga	noun	female equivalent of amigo, friend	Busco una amiga para practicar español.	I'm looking for a female friend to practice Spanish.
parque noun	parque	noun	park	Vamos al parque después de clase.	We're going to the park after class.
papel noun	papel	noun	paper	Escribe tu nombre en este papel blanco.	Write your name on this white paper.
significar verb	significar	verb	to signify	Esto no significará el fin.	This will not mean the end.
alrededor noun	alrededor	noun	surroundings	Los alrededores del colegio son seguros.	The area around the school is safe.
alrededor adv	alrededor	adv	around (from place to place)	Miré alrededor y no vi a nadie.	I looked around and didn't see anyone.
hotel noun	hotel	noun	hotel	Cerca del hotel hay una estación de metro.	There is a subway station near the hotel.
necesario adj	necesario	adj	necessary, requisite	Es necesario estudiar todos los días.	It is necessary to study every day.
fuego noun	fuego	noun	fire	No juegues con fuego, es peligroso.	Don't play with fire, it's dangerous.
revisar verb	revisar	verb	to revise	Deberíamos revisar juntos estas preguntas.	We should review these questions together.
fuego intj	fuego	intj	fire! (cry to order soldiers to start shooting)	Antes de decir ¡Fuego!, revisaron la seguridad.	Before saying "Fire!", they checked the safety.
odio noun	odio	noun	hate, hatred, loathing (strong aversion; intense dislike)	No permitamos que el odio crezca.	Let's not let hate grow.
siete num	siete	num	seven	Tengo siete libros en casa.	I have seven books at home.
siete noun	siete	noun	seven	Contamos hasta el siete en voz alta.	We counted up to seven out loud.
oportunidad noun	oportunidad	noun	opportunity, chance, shot, break, occasion, time (in both senses: “chance for advancement, progress or profit” and “favorable circumstance or occasion”)	Tuve la oportunidad de conocerla ayer.	I had the opportunity to meet her yesterday.
manchar verb	manchar	verb	to deflower to spot, stain, mark, to smudge to sully, to tarnish, to taint, to soil, to besmirch, to smear (one's name, reputation, honour, spirit, etc.)   	xxx	xxx
vivo adj	vivo	adj	alive, living (having life)	El pez todavía está vivo.	The fish is still alive.
sitio noun	sitio	noun	site, place	Busco un sitio tranquilo para leer.	I'm looking for a quiet place to read.
vista noun	vista	noun	sight, vision, eyesight (the ability to see)	Mi vista ha mejorado este año.	My eyesight has improved this year.
volar verb	volar	verb	to fly, to fly away	Mañana volaremos temprano hacia Madrid.	Tomorrow we will fly early to Madrid.
previsto adj	previsto	adj	expected, predicted	La lluvia prevista llegará mañana temprano.	The expected rain will arrive early tomorrow.
proporcional adj	proporcional	adj	proportional	xxx	xxx
pena noun	pena	noun	punishment	Las penas previstas son proporcionales.	The prescribed penalties are proportional.
hambre noun	hambre	noun	hunger	Muchos niños pasan hambre en el mundo.	Many children go hungry in the world.
abandonar verb	abandonar	verb	to abandon, to leave	No debemos abandonar nuestros sueños.	We should not abandon our dreams.
correcto adj	correcto	adj	correct, right	Tu respuesta es correcta y clara.	Your answer is correct and clear.
cuidar verb	cuidar	verb	to take care of, to care for	Prometí cuidar mejor mi salud.	I promised to take better care of my health.
cerveza noun	cerveza	noun	beer	Me gusta la cerveza fría.	I like cold beer.
playa noun	playa	noun	beach	Vamos a la playa mañana temprano.	We're going to the beach early tomorrow.
estrella noun	estrella	noun	star (celestial body)	Contamos las estrellas desde la playa en verano.	We count the stars from the beach in summer.
cuerpo noun	cuerpo	noun	body, corpse	Encontraron un cuerpo en el río.	They found a body in the river.
invitar verb	invitar	verb	to invite	Me han invitado a una conferencia mañana.	I've been invited to a conference tomorrow.
cenar verb	cenar	verb	to dine; to have supper; to have a lavish meal	¿Quieres cenar con nosotros hoy?	Do you want to have dinner with us today?
reír verb	reír	verb	to laugh	Nunca he reído tan fuerte.	I have never laughed so hard.
verdadero adj	verdadero	adj	true, real	Encontramos una verdadera oportunidad de aprendizaje.	We found a real learning opportunity.
admitir verb	admitir	verb	to accept, to admit, to agree to, to concede	¿Puedes admitir que necesitas ayuda ahora?	Can you admit that you need help now?
azul adj	azul	adj	blue	El cielo está muy azul hoy.	The sky is very blue today.
azul noun	azul	noun	blue	Me impresionó el azul de sus ojos esa tarde.	I was impressed by the blue of their eyes that afternoon.
tuyo pron	tuyo	pron	yours	Estos zapatos no son los tuyos.	These shoes aren’t yours.
tuyo det	tuyo	det	yours, your	Ese libro tuyo me encanta.	I love that book of yours.
tío noun	tío	noun	uncle (the brother, brother-in-law, or male cousin or cousin-in-law of either parent)	Mis tíos nos visitan cada verano.	My aunts and uncles visit us every summer.
siquiera adv	siquiera	adv	at least, at the least	Ven a visitarnos siquiera el fin de semana.	Come visit us at least on the weekend.
ambos adj	ambos	adj	both	Ambos equipos jugaron muy bien hoy.	Both teams played very well today.
ambos pron	ambos	pron	both	Ambos llegaron tarde a clase.	Both arrived late to class.
enviar verb	enviar	verb	to send	He enviado todo lo que pediste.	I have sent everything you asked for.
dólar noun	dólar	noun	dollar (designation for specific currency)	¿Cuánto cuesta este libro usado en dólares?	How much does this used book cost in dollars?
evitar verb	evitar	verb	to avoid, to bypass, to evade, to circumvent, to dodge, to shun, to eschew (to steer clear of)	¿Podemos evitar este problema juntos?	Can we avoid this problem together?
vuelta noun	vuelta	noun	turn	Necesitas una vuelta más para ganar.	You need one more lap to win.
apenas adv	apenas	adv	barely, scarcely	Estaba tan cansada que apenas abría los ojos.	I was so tired that I could barely open my eyes.
peor adj	peor	adj	comparative degree of malo: worse	Ese momento fue peor que el anterior.	That moment was worse than the previous one.
peor adv	peor	adv	comparative degree of mal: worse	Escribo peor cuando estoy cansado.	I write worse when I am tired.
elegir verb	elegir	verb	to choose	Hemos elegido trabajar desde casa hoy.	We have chosen to work from home today.
cumpleaños noun	cumpleaños	noun	birthday	Voy a una fiesta de cumpleaños.	I'm going to a birthday party.
partir verb	partir	verb	to divide, split	Están partiendo la cuenta en partes iguales.	They are splitting the bill equally.
famoso adj	famoso	adj	well-known, famous	Visitamos una ciudad famosa por sus playas.	We visited a city famous for its beaches.
famoso noun	famoso	noun	celebrity, famous person	Conocimos a un famoso en Madrid.	We met a celebrity in Madrid.
bailar verb	bailar	verb	to dance	Estoy bailando porque la música suena muy bien.	I'm dancing because the music sounds really good.
prohibir verb	prohibir	verb	to forbid, prohibit, enjoin	Nos prohibieron hablar durante el examen.	We were forbidden to speak during the exam.
bar noun	bar	noun	bar, coffee shop, café, pub (an establishment where refreshments and alcohol drinks are served)	Prefiero los bares tranquilos con música suave.	I prefer quiet bars with soft music.
ley noun	ley	noun	law (particular piece of legislation)	Esta ley prohíbe fumar en bares.	This law prohibits smoking in bars.
laudatorio adj	laudatorio	adj	laudatory	xxx	xxx
homenajeado noun	homenajeado	noun	guest of honour	xxx	xxx
oración noun	oración	noun	oration	Escribieron una oración laudatoria para el homenajeado.	They wrote a laudatory oration for the honoree.
raro adj	raro	adj	rare	Es muy raro encontrar esa planta.	It is very rare to find that plant.
luego adv	luego	adv	then (afterward)	Primero escucha, luego haz tus preguntas.	First listen, then ask your questions.
luego conj	luego	conj	therefore (consequently)	Eres menor, luego no puedes entrar.	You're underage, so you can't enter.
hospital noun	hospital	noun	hospital	El hospital está cerca de mi casa.	The hospital is near my house.
futuro adj	futuro	adj	future (occurring in the future)	La reunión futura será más corta.	The future meeting will be shorter.
futuro noun	futuro	noun	future, future tense	En el futuro quiero viajar más y aprender idiomas.	In the future I want to travel more and learn languages.
suceder verb	suceder	verb	to happen, to befall, to occur	Eso no volverá a suceder.	That won't happen again.
abierto adj	abierto	adj	open, unlocked (not closed, accessible)	Dejaron la ventana abierta toda la noche.	They left the window open all night.
tenis noun	tenis	noun	tennis	Me gusta ver partidos de tenis los fines de semana.	I like to watch tennis matches on weekends.
lavar verb	lavar	verb	to wash	Mañana lavaremos la ropa juntos.	Tomorrow we'll do the laundry together.
descubrir verb	descubrir	verb	to discover	Yo descubro nuevas palabras cada día.	I discover new words every day.
pasear verb	pasear	verb	to stroll, to saunter, to promenade	Yo paseo por el parque cada mañana.	I walk through the park every morning.
barco noun	barco	noun	boat (usually with a concave hull)	Compraron un barco para pasear.	They bought a boat to go for rides.
triste adj	triste	adj	sad, saddened, blue, gloomy, unhappy, joyless, triste	Sus palabras tristes me tocaron el corazón.	Their sad words touched my heart.
suponer verb	suponer	verb	to suppose, to surmise, to assume, to guess, to imagine, to figure, to say, to take it	Se supone que debes estudiar.	You're supposed to study.
ojalá adv	ojalá	adv	hopefully (I hope that)	Ojalá puedas venir a cenar.	I hope you can come for dinner.
ojalá intj	ojalá	intj	I hope so; let's hope so	Ojalá.	I hope so.
ruido noun	ruido	noun	noise, racket, rattle, clatter, sound (various sounds, usually unwanted)	Escuchamos un ruido extraño anoche.	We heard a strange noise last night.
odiar verb	odiar	verb	to hate, to loathe	De niño, odiaba comer verduras.	As a child, I hated eating vegetables.
novela noun	novela	noun	novel	Prefiero la novela a la película.	I prefer the novel to the movie.
restaurante noun	restaurante	noun	restaurant	Compararon varios restaurantes antes de elegir uno para la reunión.	They compared several restaurants before choosing one for the meeting.
boca noun	boca	noun	mouth, oral cavity	Me lavé bien la boca después de comer.	I rinsed my mouth thoroughly after eating.
patrullar verb	patrullar	verb	to patrol	xxx	xxx
guardia noun	guardia	noun	custodian, warden (male)	Los guardias patrullan el parque por la noche.	The guards patrol the park at night.
doctor noun	doctor	noun	physician	Los doctores trabajan de guardia por la noche.	The doctors work on call at night.
consejo noun	consejo	noun	advice, counsel, piece of advice	Gracias por el consejo; me ayudó mucho.	Thank you for the advice; it helped me a lot.
justo adv	justo	adv	right, just	Llegaste justo a tiempo hoy.	You arrived just in time today.
distribución noun	distribución	noun	distribution	xxx	xxx
justo adj	justo	adj	just	La distribución justa de recursos beneficia a todos.	The fair distribution of resources benefits everyone.
resultado noun	resultado	noun	result, outcome, finding, upshot	Buscamos un mejor resultado para todos.	We seek a better outcome for everyone.
crear verb	crear	verb	to create	Ella creó una cuenta nueva hoy.	She created a new account today.
recoger verb	recoger	verb	to collect, to gather, to pick up, to fetch, to retrieve (something previously left behind)	Ella recogió las llaves que había dejado.	She picked up the keys she had left.
suelo noun	suelo	noun	dirt; earth; ground; soil	Recoge ese papel del suelo, por favor.	Pick up that paper from the floor, please.
serio adj	serio	adj	serious, earnest, sober, solemn (without humor)	La situación es bastante seria hoy.	The situation is quite serious today.
frente noun	frente	noun	forehead, brow	Me duele la frente desde ayer.	My forehead has been hurting since yesterday.
fútbol noun	fútbol	noun	football (soccer)	Me encanta jugar al fútbol con mis amigos.	I love playing soccer with my friends.
temer verb	temer	verb	to fear	Yo temo hablar en público.	I fear speaking in public.
precio noun	precio	noun	price	Busco el mejor precio posible.	I am looking for the best possible price.
según prep	según	prep	according to	Según mi madre, hoy lloverá bastante.	According to my mother, it will rain quite a lot today.
detener verb	detener	verb	to detain	Ayer detuvieron a varias personas sin violencia.	Yesterday several people were arrested without violence.
viento noun	viento	noun	wind (the movement of air)	Con mucho viento, es difícil andar en bicicleta.	In strong winds, it is difficult to ride a bicycle.
uva noun	uva	noun	grape	Compré uvas frescas en el mercado hoy.	I bought fresh grapes at the market today.
paso adj	paso	adj	dried (said of fruit)	Compré uvas pasas para la receta.	I bought raisins for the recipe.
paso noun	paso	noun	pace (rough distance of a brisk stride)	La plaza queda a pocos pasos.	The square is a few steps away.
abuelo noun	abuelo	noun	grandfather	Mi abuelo cuenta historias todas las noches.	My grandfather tells stories every night.
llama noun	llama	noun	flame	El viento hace bailar las llamas.	The wind makes the flames dance.
apagar verb	apagar	verb	to extinguish (a flame, fire), to douse	No pudimos apagar las llamas a tiempo.	We couldn't put out the flames in time.
inteligente adj	inteligente	adj	intelligent	Ella es muy inteligente y trabajadora.	She is very intelligent and hardworking.
paz noun	paz	noun	peace (warlessness)	Queremos vivir en paz con todos.	We want to live in peace with everyone.
banco noun	banco	noun	bank (financial institution)	Ayer fui al banco para abrir una cuenta nueva.	Yesterday I went to the bank to open a new account.
presentar verb	presentar	verb	to present, to submit	Ella presentará su proyecto mañana.	She will present her project tomorrow.
aparecer verb	aparecer	verb	to appear, to turn up, to pop up, to come up	Siempre aparecemos tarde a las reuniones.	We always show up late to meetings.
vecino noun	vecino	noun	neighbour (a person living on adjacent or nearby land)	Los niños jugaron con sus vecinos.	The children played with their neighbors.
vecino adj	vecino	adj	neighboring, adjacent	Visitamos las ciudades vecinas el domingo.	We visited the neighboring cities on Sunday.
tarifa noun	tarifa	noun	fare (money paid for a transport ticket) fee	xxx	xxx
horario adj	horario	adj	hourly	La tarifa horaria subirá el lunes.	The hourly rate will go up on Monday.
horario noun	horario	noun	timetable, schedule	Nuestros horarios de atención cambian los fines de semana.	Our business hours change on weekends.
cambio noun	cambio	noun	change, shift	Este cambio de horario beneficia a todos.	This schedule change benefits everyone.
avanzar verb	avanzar	verb	to advance (to move forwards)	Estamos avanzando paso a paso cada día.	We are moving forward step by step every day.
cambio intj	cambio	intj	over	Esperando instrucciones para avanzar, cambio.	Awaiting instructions to proceed, over.
mandar verb	mandar	verb	to send	Nos mandaron fotos desde la playa.	They sent us photos from the beach.
invierno noun	invierno	noun	winter	En invierno hace mucho frío.	In winter it is very cold.
adecuado adj	adecuado	adj	adequate	Busca un momento adecuado para hablar.	Find a suitable time to talk.
universidad noun	universidad	noun	college	Elegir la universidad adecuada puede cambiar tu futuro.	Choosing the right university can change your future.
rey noun	rey	noun	king	El rey visitó la ciudad ayer.	The king visited the city yesterday.
bello adj	bello	adj	beautiful, fair	Tu sonrisa es realmente bella.	Your smile is really beautiful.
fuerza noun	fuerza	noun	force	Necesito más fuerza para levantar estas cajas.	I need more strength to lift these boxes.
abuso noun	abuso	noun	abuse overuse	xxx	xxx
enemigo noun	enemigo	noun	foe; enemy	Mis enemigos no me conocen realmente.	My enemies don't really know me.
duda noun	duda	noun	doubt	Resolvimos las dudas en clase.	We answered the questions in class.
casado adj	casado	adj	married	Ellos llevan diez años casados.	They have been married for ten years.
casado noun	casado	noun	a married man	Vi a varios casados en la reunión.	I saw several married people at the meeting.
besar verb	besar	verb	to kiss	Si me besaras, me sentiría mucho mejor.	If you kissed me, I would feel much better.
lingote noun	lingote	noun	ingot	xxx	xxx
acorazado adj	acorazado	adj	armoured, armored ironclad	xxx	xxx
cámara noun	cámara	noun	room	El banco protege sus lingotes en una cámara acorazada.	The bank protects its ingots in a vault.
arreglar verb	arreglar	verb	to fix, to repair, to mend	Si arreglas esto, te invito a cenar.	If you fix this, I'll treat you to dinner.
tonto adj	tonto	adj	stupid	No seas tonto, piensa mejor.	Don't be silly, think more carefully.
tonto noun	tonto	noun	a fool, a stupid person	Ese tonto siempre pierde las llaves.	That fool always loses his keys.
producto noun	producto	noun	product, commodity, item	Este producto tiene instrucciones muy claras.	This product has very clear instructions.
lectura noun	lectura	noun	reading	Me encanta la lectura antes de dormir.	I love reading before bed.
local adj	local	adj	local	La biblioteca local ofrece clases de lectura.	The local library offers reading classes.
local noun	local	noun	premises, rooms	Visitamos el local nuevo del barrio.	We visited the new place in the neighborhood.
verde adj	verde	adj	green (eco-friendly)	Prefiero comprar productos verdes y locales cuando es posible.	I prefer to buy green and local products when possible.
verde noun	verde	noun	green (color/colour)	Pintaron la pared con un verde suave.	They painted the wall a soft green.
culpa noun	culpa	noun	fault	No fue mi culpa esta vez.	It wasn't my fault this time.
enfermedad noun	enfermedad	noun	illness, disease	El médico explicó la enfermedad claramente.	The doctor explained the illness clearly.
equivocado adj	equivocado	adj	mistaken, wrong	Admitió que había estado equivocada antes.	She admitted that she had been wrong before.
completamente adv	completamente	adv	completely	Estoy completamente de acuerdo contigo.	I completely agree with you.
diente noun	diente	noun	tooth (anatomy)	Perdí un diente de leche.	I lost a baby tooth.
alegrar verb	alegrar	verb	to make happy	Esa canción siempre me alegra.	That song always cheers me up.
libertad noun	libertad	noun	liberty, freedom	Buscamos libertad para pensar y crear.	We seek freedom to think and create.
obra noun	obra	noun	work (usually literary or artistic)	La obra trata sobre la libertad.	The play is about freedom.
comprender verb	comprender	verb	to understand, to comprehend	Comprendimos poco cuando llegamos tarde.	We understood little when we arrived late.
paquete noun	paquete	noun	parcel	Estoy esperando un paquete de mi hermano.	I am waiting for a package from my brother.
sal noun	sal	noun	salt; table salt	Compré un paquete de sal para la cocina.	I bought a package of salt for the kitchen.
causa noun	causa	noun	cause	La causa del accidente fue la nieve.	The cause of the accident was the snow.
tirar verb	tirar	verb	to throw, to toss	Vamos a tirar los papeles viejos.	We are going to throw away the old papers.
merecer verb	merecer	verb	to deserve	Trabajamos mucho y merecíamos mejores resultados.	We worked a lot and deserved better results.
rato noun	rato	noun	a while, bit (a short period of time)	Esperamos un rato y entramos.	We waited a while and went in.
cocinar verb	cocinar	verb	to cook	¿Podemos cocinar juntos esta noche?	Can we cook together tonight?
sede noun	sede	noun	office seat, headquarters see venue	xxx	xxx
compañía noun	compañía	noun	company	La compañía tiene sedes en varias ciudades.	The company has offices in several cities.
dulce adj	dulce	adj	sweet (having a pleasant disposition)	Mi abuelo siempre fue dulce con todos nosotros.	My grandfather was always sweet to all of us.
dulce noun	dulce	noun	candy, sweet	Después de comer, quiero un dulce pequeño.	After eating, I want a small candy.
imposible adj	imposible	adj	impossible	Es imposible terminar todo hoy.	It is impossible to finish everything today.
plato noun	plato	noun	plate, dish (crockery)	Puse la manzana en el plato.	I put the apple on the plate.
cena noun	cena	noun	supper, dinner	¿A qué hora es la cena?	What time is dinner?
estúpido adj	estúpido	adj	stupid	No quiero parecer estúpido en clase.	I don't want to look stupid in class.
brazo noun	brazo	noun	arm	Llevaba al bebé en sus brazos.	She was carrying the baby in her arms.
mensaje noun	mensaje	noun	message	No recibí tu mensaje ayer.	I didn't receive your message yesterday.
presidente noun	presidente	noun	president	El presidente habló en la televisión.	The president spoke on television.
negar verb	negar	verb	to deny	Él niega haber dicho esa mentira.	He denies having told that lie.
ocho num	ocho	num	eight (8)	Faltan ocho minutos para terminar.	There are eight minutes left to finish.
ocho noun	ocho	noun	eight	El autobús que tomamos era el ocho.	The bus we took was number eight.
modo noun	modo	noun	way, manner	De un modo amable, todo mejora.	In a kind way, everything gets better.
acusación noun	acusación	noun	accusation	xxx	xxx
credibilidad noun	credibilidad	noun	credibility	xxx	xxx
prueba noun	prueba	noun	proof; evidence (usually in the plural)	Sin pruebas, la acusación pierde credibilidad rápidamente.	Without evidence, the accusation quickly loses credibility.
sangre noun	sangre	noun	blood	Le sacaron sangre para hacer pruebas.	They drew blood for tests.
negocio noun	negocio	noun	business, enterprise (commercial enterprise or establishment)	Necesitamos un plan para hacer crecer el negocio.	We need a plan to grow the business.
bosque noun	bosque	noun	forest	Caminamos juntos por el bosque hoy.	We walked together through the forest today.
disfrutar verb	disfrutar	verb	to enjoy	Espero disfrutar de tus clases mañana.	I hope to enjoy your classes tomorrow.
pierna noun	pierna	noun	leg (lower limb of a human)	Me duele la pierna derecha hoy.	My right leg hurts today.
decisión noun	decisión	noun	decision	Su decisión final fue muy difícil.	Their final decision was very difficult.
treinta num	treinta	num	thirty	Tengo treinta años y estudio medicina.	I am thirty years old and I study medicine.
millón noun	millón	noun	million (10⁶)	Hay millones de estrellas visibles esta noche.	There are millions of stars visible tonight.
tecnológico adj	tecnológico	adj	technological (of, relating to, or involving technology)	xxx	xxx
empresa noun	empresa	noun	company	Visité varias empresas tecnológicas en Madrid.	I visited several technology companies in Madrid.
mover verb	mover	verb	to move to, to cause to	Ella mueve la mesa con cuidado.	She moves the table carefully.
principio noun	principio	noun	beginning, start, outset, get-go	Desde el principio, todo quedó claro.	From the beginning, everything was clear.
sentado adj	sentado	adj	seated	Ellas siguen sentadas esperando el autobús.	They are still sitting, waiting for the bus.
acercar verb	acercar	verb	to bring close	Acercamos las sillas para hablar mejor.	We moved the chairs closer so we could talk better.
lisa noun	lisa	noun	mullet, white mullet	En el mercado compré una lisa fresca.	I bought a fresh mullet at the market.
piedra noun	piedra	noun	stone (hard earthen substance that can form large rocks)	La piedra del camino era lisa.	The stone on the path was smooth.
sombrero noun	sombrero	noun	hat	Perdí mi sombrero en la playa ayer.	I lost my hat at the beach yesterday.
sequía noun	sequía	noun	drought	xxx	xxx
sufrir verb	sufrir	verb	to suffer (be confronted with something undesired)	Estamos sufriendo mucho por la sequía.	We are suffering a lot because of the drought.
común adj	común	adj	common, ordinary	El sentido común ayuda mucho.	Common sense helps a lot.
votar verb	votar	verb	to vote	¿Tú votarías si tuvieras la oportunidad?	Would you vote if you had the chance?
común noun	común	noun	all of the people or inhabitants of a city, town	El común de la ciudad votó unido.	The common people of the city voted as one.
caro adv	caro	adv	costly	Me salió caro olvidar la cita.	Forgetting the appointment cost me dearly.
preferir verb	preferir	verb	to prefer	Yo prefiero estudiar por la mañana.	I prefer to study in the morning.
encima adv	encima	adv	on top	El libro está encima de la mesa.	The book is on the table.
acaso adv	acaso	adv	perhaps	¿Acaso no viste el mensaje?	Didn't you see the message?
copia noun	copia	noun	copy (a duplicate of an original)	La biblioteca tiene una copia rara de ese libro.	The library has a rare copy of that book.
periódico adj	periódico	adj	periodic	Debes hacer copias de seguridad periódicas.	You should make regular backups.
periódico noun	periódico	noun	newspaper	Compré un periódico en la tienda.	I bought a newspaper at the store.
debate noun	debate	noun	discussion	El debate en clase fue interesante.	The debate in class was interesting.
político adj	político	adj	political	El debate político fue muy intenso.	The political debate was very intense.
periodista noun	periodista	noun	journalist	Muchos periodistas trabajan en equipo.	Many journalists work as a team.
político noun	político	noun	politician	El político respondió preguntas de periodistas.	The politician answered questions from journalists.
acordar verb	acordar	verb	to agree	¿Acordamos el precio final hoy?	Are we agreeing on the final price today?
dirección noun	dirección	noun	direction	Nos perdimos porque tomamos la dirección equivocada.	We got lost because we took the wrong direction.
huracán noun	huracán	noun	hurricane	xxx	xxx
consecuencia noun	consecuencia	noun	consequence	Como consecuencia del huracán, cancelaron clases.	As a consequence of the hurricane, they canceled classes.
regla noun	regla	noun	rule (regulation, norm)	Si rompes una regla, habrá consecuencias justas.	If you break a rule, there will be fair consequences.
siguiente adj	siguiente	adj	following	La clase siguiente empieza temprano.	The next class starts early.
interesar verb	interesar	verb	to interest	A mis amigos les interesa aprender idiomas.	My friends are interested in learning languages.
detrás adv	detrás	adv	behind, at the rear	El perro está detrás de la casa.	The dog is behind the house.
experiencia noun	experiencia	noun	experience	Tengo experiencia trabajando con niños.	I have experience working with children.
herramienta noun	herramienta	noun	a tool, an implement	Compramos una herramienta nueva para el jardín.	We bought a new tool for the garden.
utilizar verb	utilizar	verb	to use; to make use of; to utilize	Podemos utilizar esta herramienta para aprender.	We can use this tool to learn.
jefe noun	jefe	noun	chief; president; head; leader of a business, political party, or other organization	El jefe de la empresa llegó temprano hoy.	The boss of the company arrived early today.
cine noun	cine	noun	cinema, moviehouse	Cerraron varios cines antiguos hoy.	They closed several old movie theaters today.
reconocer verb	reconocer	verb	to recognize	Si reconocieras eso, todo mejoraría.	If you acknowledged that, everything would improve.
ordenador noun	ordenador	noun	computer	Apaga el ordenador cuando termines de estudiar.	Turn off the computer when you finish studying.
saltar verb	saltar	verb	to jump	El gato salta sobre la mesa.	The cat jumps onto the table.
centro noun	centro	noun	center	Vivimos cerca del centro histórico.	We live near the historic center.
grupo noun	grupo	noun	group	El grupo estudia para el examen.	The group studies for the exam.
democrático adj	democrático	adj	democratic (pertaining to democracy)	xxx	xxx
gobierno noun	gobierno	noun	government	Los gobiernos democráticos protegen los derechos humanos.	Democratic governments protect human rights.
divertido adj	divertido	adj	entertaining, amusing, funny	La película resultó bastante divertida anoche.	The movie turned out to be quite entertaining last night.
estado noun	estado	noun	country, land (any broad area or territory)	Los estados vecinos comparten una frontera.	The neighboring states share a border.
pieza noun	pieza	noun	piece, part	Compré una pieza de fruta fresca en el mercado.	I bought a piece of fresh fruit at the market.
acá adv	acá	adv	here	Ven acá y mira esta foto.	Come here and look at this photo.
montón noun	montón	noun	heap, pile (collection of things laid in a body, or thrown together so as to form an elevation)	El gato duerme sobre el montón de ropa.	The cat is sleeping on the pile of clothes.
carro noun	carro	noun	cart	El carro de compras está lleno.	The shopping cart is full.
tejido noun	tejido	noun	textile (a cloth)        texture (of a cloth)        tissue (a group of cells similar in origin that function together to do a specific job)        weave (a type or way of weaving)        weaving (a piece of woven material made on a loom)        	xxx	xxx
maestro noun	maestro	noun	master	Las maestras del tejido compartieron sus secretos.	The knitting teachers shared their secrets.
maestro adj	maestro	adj	master	La llave maestra abrió todas las puertas.	The master key opened all the doors.
marido noun	marido	noun	husband	Mi marido cocina los domingos.	My husband cooks on Sundays.
información noun	información	noun	information	Necesito información sobre el curso.	I need information about the course.
ajedrez noun	ajedrez	noun	chess	Aprendí ajedrez con mi abuelo.	I learned chess from my grandfather.
arte noun	arte	noun	art	El arte digital crece rápidamente en las escuelas.	Digital art is growing rapidly in schools.
correo noun	correo	noun	mail	Hoy revisé el correo temprano.	I checked my email early today.
discutir verb	discutir	verb	to discuss, to argue; to talk about	Si discutieras menos, te entenderían mejor.	If you argued less, they'd understand you better.
piso noun	piso	noun	floor, ground (surface of the earth)	Nos sentamos en el piso para jugar cartas.	We sat on the floor to play cards.
esperanza noun	esperanza	noun	hope, hopefulness	Tenemos esperanza porque trabajamos unidos.	We have hope because we work together.
simplemente adv	simplemente	adv	simply	Puedes simplemente esperar tu turno.	You can simply wait your turn.
dedo noun	dedo	noun	finger	Cuenta con los dedos de una mano.	Count on the fingers of one hand.
mente noun	mente	noun	mind, intellect	Cuida tu mente todos los días.	Take care of your mind every day.
isla noun	isla	noun	island (area of land surrounded by water)	Esa isla pequeña tiene una playa hermosa.	That small island has a beautiful beach.
caliente adj	caliente	adj	hot, warm (emitting heat or warmth)	El sol de verano es muy caliente.	The summer sun is very hot.
entrenar verb	entrenar	verb	to train	Quiero entrenar más para mejorar.	I want to train more to improve.
campeonato noun	campeonato	noun	championship	Ella entrena duro para el campeonato.	She trains hard for the championship.
peso noun	peso	noun	weight class	Ella entrena para el campeonato de peso medio.	She trains for the middleweight championship.
limpiar verb	limpiar	verb	to clean	¿Puedes limpiar la mesa antes de que lleguen?	Can you clean the table before they arrive?
piano noun	piano	noun	piano	Mi hermana practica el piano diariamente.	My sister practices the piano daily.
lentamente adv	lentamente	adv	slowly	Por favor, habla más lentamente conmigo.	Please, speak more slowly with me.
verter verb	verter	verb	to pour, spill, shed	Vierte el agua lentamente en el vaso.	Pour the water slowly into the glass.
orgulloso adj	orgulloso	adj	proud	Estoy orgulloso de mi trabajo.	I am proud of my work.
iglesia noun	iglesia	noun	church	Fuimos a la iglesia el domingo.	We went to church on Sunday.
comunidad noun	comunidad	noun	community	Nuestra comunidad celebra fiestas cada verano.	Our community celebrates festivals every summer.
devolver verb	devolver	verb	to devolve	Debemos devolver el poder de decisión a las comunidades.	We must return decision-making power to the communities.
debido adj	debido	adj	owed	Nos devolvieron el dinero debido.	They returned the money owed to us.
favorito adj	favorito	adj	favorite	Su color favorito es el azul.	Their favorite color is blue.
favorito noun	favorito	noun	favorite	No tengo un favorito claro por ahora.	I don't have a clear favorite for now.
amargo adj	amargo	adj	bitter, sour (having an acrid taste)	El café está muy amargo hoy.	The coffee is very bitter today.
ruptura noun	ruptura	noun	breaking off; breakup rupture	xxx	xxx
amargo noun	amargo	noun	bitterness	Aceptó lo amargo de la ruptura.	They accepted the bitterness of the breakup.
gusto noun	gusto	noun	taste (flavour)	El café dejó un gusto amargo en la boca.	The coffee left a bitter taste in the mouth.
alumno noun	alumno	noun	pupil, student, learner	Los alumnos trabajan en equipos pequeños.	The students work in small teams.
conclusión noun	conclusión	noun	conclusion, end	Llegó a conclusiones claras después de practicar.	They came to clear conclusions after practicing.
dato noun	dato	noun	datum (a single piece of information)	Revisa los datos antes de sacar conclusiones.	Review the data before drawing conclusions.
real adj	real	adj	real	Necesitamos datos reales para tomar decisiones.	We need real data to make decisions.
finalmente adv	finalmente	adv	finally, in the end	Finalmente terminamos el proyecto juntos.	We finally finished the project together.
mentir verb	mentir	verb	to lie (say something untrue)	No debes mentir a tus padres.	You shouldn't lie to your parents.
veinte num	veinte	num	twenty	En la clase hay veinte estudiantes.	There are twenty students in the class.
molestar verb	molestar	verb	to bother, to disturb, to trouble, to impose, to inconvenience, to burden	No quiero molestar a nadie más.	I don't want to bother anyone else.
tampoco adv	tampoco	adv	neither; nor; also not	Yo tampoco quiero ir hoy temprano.	I don't want to go early today either.
cual adv	cual	adv	like, as, in the manner of	Lloraba cual un niño muy pequeño.	He was crying like a very small child.
cual pron	cual	pron	suchlike, like (which), such as	No entiendo nada, lo cual me preocupa.	I don't understand anything, which worries me.
alma noun	alma	noun	soul	Siento mi alma tranquila hoy.	I feel my soul at peace today.
oro noun	oro	noun	gold.	El precio del oro subió hoy.	The price of gold went up today.
confiscar verb	confiscar	verb	to confiscate	xxx	xxx
arma noun	arma	noun	weapon, arm	El policía confiscó rápidamente el arma peligrosa.	The police officer quickly confiscated the dangerous weapon.
producir verb	producir	verb	to produce	Si trabajamos juntos, produciremos mejores ideas.	If we work together, we will produce better ideas.
continuar verb	continuar	verb	to continue, to carry on	Debemos continuar con el proyecto mañana.	We must continue with the project tomorrow.
obtener verb	obtener	verb	to obtain	Si trabajas duro, obtendrás mejores oportunidades.	If you work hard, you will get better opportunities.
analizar verb	analizar	verb	to analyze (to subject to analysis)	¿Puedes analizar este problema conmigo?	Can you analyze this problem with me?
uso noun	uso	noun	use	Analizamos los usos comunes de esta palabra.	We analyzed the common uses of this word.
ruso adj	ruso	adj	Russian	El equipo ruso ganó el campeonato.	The Russian team won the championship.
ruso noun	ruso	noun	Russian (person) (male or of unspecified sex)	El joven ruso aprendió español en un año.	The young Russian learned Spanish in a year.
pues conj	pues	conj	so, then; in that case	Mañana viajamos juntos, pues termina temprano.	Tomorrow we travel together, since it ends early.
exactamente adv	exactamente	adv	exactly	Quiero saber exactamente qué necesitas.	I want to know exactly what you need.
vacío adj	vacío	adj	empty, vacant	Las camas siguen vacías esta mañana.	The beds are still empty this morning.
enfrentar verb	enfrentar	verb	to confront, to face, to stand up to, (a person or force aggressively)	Aprendimos a enfrentar los cambios juntos.	We learned to face the changes together.
vacío noun	vacío	noun	vacuum, void	El arte a veces enfrenta el vacío de sentido.	Art sometimes confronts the void of meaning.
salvar verb	salvar	verb	to save	Ojalá podamos salvar el bosque.	I hope we can save the forest.
suyo pron	suyo	pron	his, hers, its	Traje mis libros, y él trajo los suyos también.	I brought my books, and he brought his as well.
suyo det	suyo	det	his, hers, its, to her	Encontré un libro suyo en la mesa.	I found one of his books on the table.
manejar verb	manejar	verb	to handle	¿Puedes manejar esta situación difícil?	Can you handle this difficult situation?
quejar verb	quejar	verb	only used in se ... quejar, syntactic variant of quejarse	No se debería quejar tanto.	One shouldn't complain so much.
esfuerzo noun	esfuerzo	noun	effort, endeavor	Sus esfuerzos dieron resultados después de meses.	Their efforts produced results after months.
perfecto adj	perfecto	adj	perfect	Buscamos el regalo perfecto para su cumpleaños.	We're looking for the perfect gift for their birthday.
pegar verb	pegar	verb	to stick	Mañana pegaré el mosaico con cuidado.	Tomorrow I will glue the mosaic carefully.
novio noun	novio	noun	boyfriend (romantic partner)	Mi novio y yo viajamos mañana.	My boyfriend and I are traveling tomorrow.
totalmente adv	totalmente	adv	totally	Estoy totalmente de acuerdo contigo.	I totally agree with you.
perdonar verb	perdonar	verb	to pardon, excuse, forgive	Ojalá él nos perdone pronto.	I hope he forgives us soon.
soñar verb	soñar	verb	to dream	Anoche soñé que visitaba tu ciudad.	Last night I dreamed that I was visiting your city.
helado adj	helado	adj	icy, frozen	El viento helado me cortaba la cara.	The icy wind was cutting my face.
helado noun	helado	noun	ice cream	Quiero compartir mi helado contigo.	I want to share my ice cream with you.
paciente adj	paciente	adj	patient	Mi abuela, siempre paciente, nos escucha.	My grandmother, always patient, listens to us.
paciente noun	paciente	noun	patient	El paciente espera su turno tranquilamente.	The patient calmly waits for his turn.
engañar verb	engañar	verb	to trick, to deceive, to hoodwink, to cheat	No intentes engañar a tus amigos.	Don't try to trick your friends.
lista noun	lista	noun	list, roll	Necesito revisar la lista antes de salir.	I need to check the list before leaving.
planeta noun	planeta	noun	planet	Marte es un planeta rojo y frío.	Mars is a red and cold planet.
pelar verb	pelar	verb	to peel (fruits, vegetables)	Mi abuelo pela naranjas todos los días.	My grandfather peels oranges every day.
pulverizar verb	pulverizar	verb	to pulverize, atomize	xxx	xxx
guapo adj	guapo	adj	good-looking; handsome, pretty (describes a man or a woman)	Esos chicos guapos cantan muy bien.	Those handsome boys sing very well.
pásame verb	pásame	verb	second-person singular imperative of pasar combined with me	xxx	xxx
cuchillo noun	cuchillo	noun	knife	Pásame el cuchillo, por favor.	Pass me the knife, please.
ciencia noun	ciencia	noun	science	En la ciencia, observamos, medimos y comparamos.	In science, we observe, measure, and compare.
ante prep	ante	prep	in front of, before	Se detuvo ante el semáforo en rojo.	They stopped before the red traffic light.
prisa noun	prisa	noun	hurry, rush, urgency	¿Tienes mucha prisa esta tarde?	Are you in a hurry this afternoon?
matemático adj	matemático	adj	mathematical (relating to mathematics)	El problema matemático fue resuelto hoy.	The math problem was solved today.
matemático noun	matemático	noun	mathematician	Muchos matemáticos enseñan en universidades públicas.	Many mathematicians teach at public universities.
dormido adj	dormido	adj	asleep, sleeping	Ella estaba dormida cuando llegaste.	She was asleep when you arrived.
ejemplo noun	ejemplo	noun	example	Necesitamos más ejemplos en la clase.	We need more examples in class.
pertenecer verb	pertenecer	verb	to belong; to pertain	¿Crees que pertenezco a este lugar?	Do you think I belong here?
ladrón adj	ladrón	adj	thievish	Noten su aire ladrón al entrar.	Notice their thievish air upon entering.
ladrón noun	ladrón	noun	thief; robber; rogue; crook	Un ladrón intentó abrir el coche de noche.	A thief tried to open the car at night.
azúcar noun	azúcar	noun	sugar	Me gusta el café con azúcar.	I like coffee with sugar.
enamorar verb	enamorar	verb	to enamor	Ellos enamoraron a muchos en la universidad.	They charmed many people at the university.
capital noun	capital	noun	capital	La capital del estado creció rápidamente.	The state capital grew rapidly.
valor noun	valor	noun	value (all senses)	El valor del libro bajó este año.	The value of the book decreased this year.
cubrir verb	cubrir	verb	to cover	¿Puedes cubrir mi turno mañana?	Can you cover my shift tomorrow?
daño noun	daño	noun	damage	El seguro cubrirá los daños del accidente.	The insurance will cover the damage from the accident.
página noun	página	noun	page	Por favor, abre el libro en la página tres.	Please, open the book to page three.
actuar verb	actuar	verb	to act, to behave	Debemos actuar rápido para ayudar.	We must act quickly to help.
delante adv	delante	adv	in front of, before (spatially)	El coche está delante del camión.	The car is in front of the truck.
cerrado adj	cerrado	adj	shut, closed	El banco estaba cerrado el domingo.	The bank was closed on Sunday.
máquina noun	máquina	noun	machine	La máquina de escribir suena muy fuerte.	The typewriter sounds very loud.
silencio noun	silencio	noun	silence	Hubo un largo silencio antes de su respuesta.	There was a long silence before their response.
escapar verb	escapar	verb	to escape, get out	A veces quiero escapar de la rutina diaria.	Sometimes I want to escape the daily routine.
guitarra noun	guitarra	noun	guitar	Compré una guitarra nueva ayer.	I bought a new guitar yesterday.
aeropuerto noun	aeropuerto	noun	airport	El aeropuerto estaba muy lleno hoy.	The airport was very crowded today.
botella noun	botella	noun	bottle	Puse la botella de agua en la mesa.	I put the water bottle on the table.
paseo noun	paseo	noun	walk, stroll	Damos un paseo por el parque.	We go for a walk in the park.
atrás adv	atrás	adv	behind	No mires atrás cuando camines.	Don't look back when you walk.
atrás intj	atrás	intj	get back, back off, back away	¡Atrás, no te acerques al fuego!	Back, don't go near the fire!
guardar verb	guardar	verb	to save (to store for future use)	Ayer guardamos la ropa de invierno en cajas.	Yesterday we put away the winter clothes in boxes.
mitad noun	mitad	noun	half	Pagamos a mitad de precio.	We pay half price.
huir verb	huir	verb	to flee, to run away	Muchos animales huyen del fuego.	Many animals flee from the fire.
soportar verb	soportar	verb	to bear, to endure, to withstand, put up with, tolerate, to stomach, to weather, to handle	No puedo soportar ese ruido.	I can't stand that noise.
despedir verb	despedir	verb	to dismiss	Ojalá no te vuelvan a despedir nunca.	I hope they never fire you again.
orden noun	orden	noun	order	Necesitamos orden para trabajar mejor.	We need order to work better.
útil adj	útil	adj	helpful; useful	Este diccionario es muy útil para estudiantes de español.	This dictionary is very useful for students of Spanish.
contento adj	contento	adj	content	Seguimos contentos con el acuerdo.	We are still happy with the agreement.
contento noun	contento	noun	contentment; gladness	Perdió el contento tras la noticia.	They lost their good mood after the news.
deporte noun	deporte	noun	sport	El deporte ayuda a mantener la salud.	Sports help maintain health.
traducción noun	traducción	noun	translation	¿Puedes revisar mi traducción al inglés?	Can you review my translation into English?
convencer verb	convencer	verb	to convince	Ojalá él me convenza pronto.	I hope he convinces me soon.
debajo prep	debajo	prep	below, under	El gato duerme debajo de la mesa.	The cat sleeps under the table.
lago noun	lago	noun	lake	Los niños nadaron en el lago frío.	The children swam in the cold lake.
objetivo adj	objetivo	adj	objective	El periodista intentó ser objetivo siempre.	The journalist always tried to be objective.
objetivo noun	objetivo	noun	objective	Nuestro objetivo es aprender cada día.	Our objective is to learn every day.
acostar verb	acostar	verb	to lay	Ojalá lo acueste temprano esta semana.	I hope to put him to bed early this week.
espalda noun	espalda	noun	back	Me duele la espalda cada mañana.	My back hurts every morning.
tormenta noun	tormenta	noun	storm, thunderstorm, lightning storm	Cancelaron las clases por la tormenta.	They canceled classes because of the storm.
causar verb	causar	verb	to cause, to make	La tormenta causará retrasos en la carretera.	The storm will cause delays on the road.
suficientemente adv	suficientemente	adv	sufficiently	El café está lo suficientemente caliente para beber.	The coffee is hot enough to drink.
papá noun	papá	noun	dad	Mi papá cocina la cena hoy.	My dad is cooking dinner today.
enorme adj	enorme	adj	enormous, huge	Este problema es enorme para nosotros.	This problem is enormous for us.
barato adj	barato	adj	cheap; inexpensive; sold at a low price	Compramos frutas baratas en el mercado local.	We buy cheap fruit at the local market.
radio noun	radio	noun	radio (device)	En su habitación hay dos radios pequeñas.	There are two small radios in their room.
influir verb	influir	verb	to influence	Tus palabras influyen mucho en mi decisión.	Your words greatly influence my decision.
política noun	política	noun	politics (activities associated with running a government or organisation)	La política influye en nuestra vida diaria.	Politics influences our daily life.
respecto noun	respecto	noun	respect, regard, connection, relation, relationship	Con respecto a tu pregunta, lo revisaremos mañana.	Regarding your question, we will review it tomorrow.
depender verb	depender	verb	to depend, to be subject to	Dependemos de que llegues temprano.	We depend on you arriving early.
jugador noun	jugador	noun	player	El equipo busca jugadores con experiencia.	The team is looking for experienced players.
probablemente adv	probablemente	adv	probably, likely	Probablemente encontremos mejores precios mañana.	We will probably find better prices tomorrow.
cien num	cien	num	one hundred (100)	Tengo cien libros en casa.	I have one hundred books at home.
siglo noun	siglo	noun	century	En el siglo pasado, la gente viajaba lentamente.	In the last century, people traveled slowly.
concierto noun	concierto	noun	concert	El concierto empieza a las ocho.	The concert starts at eight.
intención noun	intención	noun	intention	Fue un error sin intención.	It was an unintentional mistake.
desaparecer verb	desaparecer	verb	to disappear, to go missing, to vanish, to be gone	El sol desaparece tras las montañas.	The sun disappears behind the mountains.
nariz noun	nariz	noun	nose; smell (sense of smell)	Ella tiene la nariz grande.	She has a big nose.
nueve num	nueve	num	nine	Tengo nueve años de experiencia.	I have nine years of experience.
nueve noun	nueve	noun	the digit or figure 9	Conté hasta el nueve lentamente.	I counted to nine slowly.
entrada noun	entrada	noun	entrance	Pintaron de azul la entrada de la escuela.	They painted the school entrance blue.
entero adj	entero	adj	whole; entire	Guardó silencio la noche entera.	They kept silent the whole night.
entero noun	entero	noun	whole number, integer	Un entero no tiene parte decimal.	An integer has no decimal part.
preocupado adj	preocupado	adj	worried, concerned	Estoy preocupado por el examen de mañana.	I'm worried about tomorrow's exam.
felicidad noun	felicidad	noun	happiness	Cuidar tu salud mejora tu felicidad.	Taking care of your health improves your happiness.
agradecer verb	agradecer	verb	to thank	¿Podrías agradecerles que hayan venido temprano?	Could you thank them for coming early?
general adj	general	adj	general, overall	Tengo una idea general del tema.	I have a general idea of the topic.
general noun	general	noun	general	El general dio la orden final.	The general gave the final order.
imaginar verb	imaginar	verb	to imagine	Puedo imaginar cómo será mañana.	I can imagine what tomorrow will be like.
museo noun	museo	noun	museum	El museo abre a las diez.	The museum opens at ten.
pintura noun	pintura	noun	painting	La pintura del museo me impresionó mucho.	The painting at the museum impressed me a lot.
clima noun	clima	noun	climate, weather	Observamos el clima local durante el viaje.	We observed the local weather during the trip.
desayunar verb	desayunar	verb	to break a fast	Deberías desayunar antes de entrenar.	You should have breakfast before training.
formar verb	formar	verb	to form, to create	Antes formábamos equipos cada verano.	In the past, we used to form teams every summer.
regalar verb	regalar	verb	to give as a present, to gift	Mis padres me regalaron una bicicleta.	My parents gave me a bicycle.
puente noun	puente	noun	bridge, denture (artificial replacement of one or more teeth)	El puente sufrió daños tras la tormenta.	The bridge sustained damage after the storm.
asegurar verb	asegurar	verb	to secure (to make fast; to close or confine effectually)	Asegura la puerta con llave antes de salir.	Lock the door before leaving.
profundo adj	profundo	adj	deep (having a bottom far from the surface or mouth)	El río es peligroso y profundo en invierno.	The river is dangerous and deep in winter.
aburrido adj	aburrido	adj	bored, fed up	Estoy aburrido de esperar aquí.	I'm bored of waiting here.
través noun	través	noun	bend, turn	El barco quedó de través durante la tormenta.	The ship ended up broadside during the storm.
inmediatamente adv	inmediatamente	adv	immediately	Llama inmediatamente si necesitas ayuda.	Call immediately if you need help.
ocupar verb	ocupar	verb	to occupy, to reside in	El museo ocupa un edificio antiguo.	The museum occupies an old building.
italiano adj	italiano	adj	Italian (pertaining to Italy)	Estudio la historia del arte italiano.	I study the history of Italian art.
italiano noun	italiano	noun	an Italian	Vi a varias italianas visitando el museo hoy.	I saw several Italian women visiting the museum today.
anciano adj	anciano	adj	elderly	El hombre anciano camina con cuidado.	The elderly man walks carefully.
anciano noun	anciano	noun	an elderly person	El anciano camina lentamente por el parque.	The elderly man walks slowly through the park.
agradable adj	agradable	adj	agreeable, pleasant	El clima hoy es muy agradable.	The weather today is very pleasant.
enojar verb	enojar	verb	to anger	Se enojaron porque llegamos tarde.	We made them angry because we arrived late.
gastar verb	gastar	verb	to spend (money, time, resources)	Tratan de no gastar agua.	They try not to waste water.
artículo noun	artículo	noun	article	Ella escribió un artículo para el periódico local.	She wrote an article for the local newspaper.
gafas noun	gafas	noun	eyeglasses	¿Dónde dejaste tus gafas ayer?	Where did you leave your glasses yesterday?
rosa noun	rosa	noun	rose	Corté una rosa para la mesa.	I cut a rose for the table.
rosa adj	rosa	adj	pink (color/colour)	Las paredes de la habitación son rosa muy suave.	The walls of the room are a very soft pink.
desayuno noun	desayuno	noun	breakfast	¿Qué quieres para el desayuno hoy?	What do you want for breakfast today?
sopa noun	sopa	noun	soup	Prefiero la sopa de fideos con verduras frescas.	I prefer noodle soup with fresh vegetables.
enfadado adj	enfadado	adj	angry, irate	Estoy muy enfadado por el retraso.	I am very angry about the delay.
primavera noun	primavera	noun	spring (season)	Me gusta pasear en primavera.	I like to go for walks in spring.
almorzar verb	almorzar	verb	to eat lunch	Mañana almorzaremos juntos en la oficina.	Tomorrow we will have lunch together at the office.
taxi noun	taxi	noun	taxi	Tomamos un taxi al aeropuerto.	We took a taxi to the airport.
memoria noun	memoria	noun	memory (the ability of the brain to record information)	Con la edad, la memoria puede volverse más lenta.	With age, memory can become slower.
naturaleza noun	naturaleza	noun	nature	Los niños aprenden sobre la naturaleza en el parque.	The children learn about nature in the park.
bolsa noun	bolsa	noun	bag	Puse los juguetes en dos bolsas grandes.	I put the toys into two large bags.
realizar verb	realizar	verb	to carry out; to perform; to conduct; to implement (e.g. a change, a task, project, plan, inspection, experiment, procedures)	El equipo realizará pruebas mañana temprano.	The team will conduct tests early tomorrow.
respetar verb	respetar	verb	to respect	Ella respeta todas las opiniones diferentes.	She respects all different opinions.
acompañar verb	acompañar	verb	to accompany, to go with, to join, to tag along	Ella me acompañó durante el viaje.	She accompanied me during the trip.
miembro noun	miembro	noun	member (one who belongs to a group)	Soy miembro de la comunidad local.	I am a member of the local community.
profesora noun	profesora	noun	female equivalent of profesor (“teacher”)	La profesora de matemáticas explica conceptos claramente.	The math teacher explains concepts clearly.
tensión noun	tensión	noun	tension, tenseness	Siento mucha tensión antes del examen.	I feel a lot of tension before the exam.
línea noun	línea	noun	line (a path for electrical current)	Revisaron las líneas de alta tensión.	They inspected the high-voltage lines.
amarillo adj	amarillo	adj	yellow or golden (colour)	Compré limones amarillos en el mercado.	I bought yellow lemons at the market.
amarillo noun	amarillo	noun	yellow	Me gusta mucho el amarillo.	I really like yellow.
abrigo noun	abrigo	noun	overcoat	Ese abrigo negro es muy caro.	That black coat is very expensive.
escalera noun	escalera	noun	stairs	Bajé la escalera con mucho cuidado.	I went down the stairs very carefully.
excelente adj	excelente	adj	excellent, brilliant, superb	Tenemos excelentes oportunidades de aprendizaje aquí.	We have excellent learning opportunities here.
solución noun	solución	noun	solution	Compararon las soluciones de ambos equipos.	They compared the solutions of both teams.
limpio adj	limpio	adj	clean	Mantengo mi cuarto muy limpio.	I keep my room very clean.
principal adj	principal	adj	main, most important	Mi objetivo principal es aprender español.	My main objective is to learn Spanish.
aldea noun	aldea	noun	village	Los niños de la aldea juegan juntos.	The village children play together.
principal noun	principal	noun	chief, boss	El principal de la aldea tomó la decisión final.	The village chief made the final decision.
poema noun	poema	noun	poem (literary piece written in verse)	Escribió un poema para su abuela.	They wrote a poem for their grandmother.
programa noun	programa	noun	programme, program	El programa de televisión empieza temprano.	The TV show starts early.
terrible adj	terrible	adj	terrible, awful, horrible (very bad)	Las condiciones del hospital eran terribles.	The conditions at the hospital were terrible.
capacidad noun	capacidad	noun	capacity, capability, ability	Ella tiene la capacidad de aprender rápidamente.	She has the ability to learn quickly.
preparado adj	preparado	adj	prepared	Estoy preparado para el examen de mañana.	I am prepared for tomorrow's exam.
preparado noun	preparado	noun	preparation	Ese preparado de plantas ayuda a dormir.	That herbal preparation helps you sleep.
costumbre noun	costumbre	noun	habit	Tengo la costumbre de leer.	I'm in the habit of reading.
broma noun	broma	noun	joke, prank, practical joke	No entiendo la broma que hiciste.	I don't understand the joke you made.
simple adj	simple	adj	mere, ordinary	Dijo que era una simple broma.	They said it was just a simple joke.
acostumbrado adj	acostumbrado	adj	customary	A la hora acostumbrada, cerraron la tienda.	At the usual time, they closed the store.
compañero noun	compañero	noun	companion (someone with whom one spends time or keeps company)	Siempre trato bien a mis compañeros más nuevos.	I always treat my newer colleagues well.
descansar verb	descansar	verb	to rest, relax (be in a state of rest or inactivity)	Nos sentamos un momento para descansar.	We sat down for a moment to rest.
encender verb	encender	verb	to light, ignite	Ayer encendimos la chimenea para calentarnos.	Yesterday we lit the fireplace to warm ourselves.
frecuencia noun	frecuencia	noun	frequency	La radio funciona en otra frecuencia hoy.	The radio is on a different frequency today.
sentimiento noun	sentimiento	noun	feeling	Tengo un sentimiento extraño hoy.	I have a strange feeling today.
últimamente adv	últimamente	adv	recently, lately	Últimamente estoy muy cansado por el trabajo.	Lately I'm very tired because of work.
nevar verb	nevar	verb	to snow	Hoy nieva mucho en la montaña.	Today it's snowing a lot in the mountains.
almuerzo noun	almuerzo	noun	lunch	Hoy preparé el almuerzo para todos.	Today I prepared lunch for everyone.
servicio noun	servicio	noun	service	Necesitamos mejorar el servicio de salud en la comunidad.	We need to improve healthcare services in the community.
agarrar verb	agarrar	verb	to grab or take hold of	Por favor, agarra mi mano con fuerza.	Please, hold my hand tightly.
jugo noun	jugo	noun	juice (liquid from a plant) substance (the most vital part of something)	xxx	xxx
llenar verb	llenar	verb	to fill something up	Ella llena la botella con jugo fresco.	She fills the bottle with fresh juice.
maravilloso adj	maravilloso	adj	wonderful, marvelous	Encontramos soluciones maravillosas a nuestros problemas.	We found wonderful solutions to our problems.
aprobar verb	aprobar	verb	to approve, to condone, to permit	Quisiera que aprobaran el proyecto.	I would like them to approve the project.
texto noun	texto	noun	text	Comparé dos textos sobre historia.	I compared two texts about history.
normal adj	normal	adj	normal, standard, regular, fine	Es normal necesitar ayuda al principio.	It's normal to need help at the beginning.
resto noun	resto	noun	rest, remainder	Guardamos el resto de la sopa para mañana.	We saved the rest of the soup for tomorrow.
quemar verb	quemar	verb	to burn	Si sigues, vas a quemar la comida.	If you keep this up, you're going to burn the food.
ocultar verb	ocultar	verb	to hide, to conceal	Ojalá no oculte información importante.	I hope they don't hide important information.
aclarar verb	aclarar	verb	to clarify, clear (make clear or clearer)	¿Podrías aclarar este punto, por favor?	Could you clarify this point, please?
añadir verb	añadir	verb	to augment	Podemos añadir ejemplos para aclarar mejor.	We can add examples to clarify better.
pelear verb	pelear	verb	to fight, to argue	No quiero pelear contigo hoy.	I don't want to fight with you today.
gordo adj	gordo	adj	fat	Mi gato está muy gordo últimamente.	My cat has gotten very fat lately.
gordo noun	gordo	noun	fat man	El gordo lee en el parque cada tarde.	The fat man reads in the park every afternoon.
ergonómico adj	ergonómico	adj	ergonomic	xxx	xxx
ratón noun	ratón	noun	mouse (input device)	Prefiero un ratón ergonómico para trabajar muchas horas.	I prefer an ergonomic mouse to work long hours.
nube noun	nube	noun	cloud	Una nube oscura cubrió la ciudad.	A dark cloud covered the city.
sociedad noun	sociedad	noun	society, social order	Una sociedad justa protege a todos.	A just society protects everyone.
superar verb	superar	verb	to surpass, exceed	Con esfuerzo, pude superar mis miedos.	With effort, I was able to overcome my fears.
borracho adj	borracho	adj	drunk, inebriated	Llegaron borrachas y olvidaron sus abrigos.	They arrived drunk and forgot their coats.
borracho noun	borracho	noun	drunkard	Aquel borracho buscaba su casa anoche.	That drunk was looking for his house last night.
letra noun	letra	noun	letter (symbol)	Esta palabra tiene cinco letras diferentes.	This word has five different letters.
cultura noun	cultura	noun	culture	La cultura digital cambia nuestras costumbres.	Digital culture changes our customs.
luchar verb	luchar	verb	to fight, to battle, to do battle	Quiero luchar contra mis miedos.	I want to fight against my fears.
belleza noun	belleza	noun	beauty (beautiful person or object)	Las bellezas del museo impresionan.	The beauties of the museum impress.
embargo noun	embargo	noun	embargo	Presentaron un recurso contra el embargo.	They filed an appeal against the embargo.
queso noun	queso	noun	cheese	Me gusta el queso con pan.	I like cheese with bread.
asiento noun	asiento	noun	seat	¿Este asiento está libre u ocupado?	Is this seat free or occupied?
perdón intj	perdón	intj	sorry, pardon me (excuse me)	Perdón, fue completamente mi error.	Sorry, it was completely my fault.
perdón noun	perdón	noun	pardon	Necesita tu perdón para poder avanzar.	They need your forgiveness to move forward.
presidencial adj	presidencial	adj	presidential	xxx	xxx
elección noun	elección	noun	election	La elección presidencial será el domingo.	The presidential election will be on Sunday.
absoluto adj	absoluto	adj	absolute	El silencio era absoluto anoche.	The silence was absolute last night.
informe noun	informe	noun	report	Necesito revisar tu informe antes de la reunión.	I need to review your report before the meeting.
científico adj	científico	adj	scientific	El informe científico explica los resultados.	The scientific report explains the results.
científico noun	científico	noun	scientist	El científico estudia las estrellas cada noche.	The scientist studies the stars every night.
soldado noun	soldado	noun	soldier	Ese soldado protege la frontera en invierno.	That soldier protects the border in winter.
permanecer verb	permanecer	verb	to stay, remain, stand	Prefiero permanecer en casa cuando llueve.	I prefer to stay at home when it rains.
repetir verb	repetir	verb	to repeat; to take seconds (meal)	Ojalá no tenga que repetir el examen.	I hope I don't have to retake the exam.
inspirador adj	inspirador	adj	inspiring	xxx	xxx
discurso noun	discurso	noun	discourse	El presidente dio un discurso inspirador ayer.	The president gave an inspiring speech yesterday.
montar verb	montar	verb	to mount	Mañana vamos a montar a caballo.	Tomorrow we are going horseback riding.
portugués adj	portugués	adj	Portuguese (from, native to, or pertaining to Portugal)	Ella cocina comida portuguesa con amor.	She cooks Portuguese food with love.
portugués noun	portugués	noun	Portuguese (language)	Estoy aprendiendo portugués en línea.	I am learning Portuguese online.
madera noun	madera	noun	wood	Compraron madera nueva para la obra.	They bought new lumber for the construction site.
muchacho noun	muchacho	noun	boy	El muchacho lee un libro interesante.	The boy reads an interesting book.
béisbol noun	béisbol	noun	baseball (ballgame)	Mi hermano juega al béisbol cada fin de semana.	My brother plays baseball every weekend.
lágrima noun	lágrima	noun	tear, teardrop	Entre lágrimas, pidió perdón a todos.	In tears, they asked everyone for forgiveness.
estadounidense adj	estadounidense	adj	American, US-American (of, from or relating to the United States)	Conozco una profesora estadounidense muy amable.	I know a very kind American female professor.
estadounidense noun	estadounidense	noun	American, U.S. American (native or inhabitant of the United States)	Un estadounidense visitó nuestra universidad ayer.	An American visited our university yesterday.
sucio adj	sucio	adj	dirty, filthy	Tus zapatos están sucios después de jugar.	Your shoes are dirty after playing.
sucio adv	sucio	adv	dirty (in a dirty manner)	En su barrio, siempre juegan sucio.	In their neighborhood, they always play dirty.
escrito adj	escrito	adj	written	Las instrucciones escritas ayudan a estudiar mejor.	Written instructions help you study better.
escrito noun	escrito	noun	a writing, a writ	Necesito tu escrito sobre historia.	I need your paper on history.
ciento num	ciento	num	one hundred (100) (only in compounds followed by lower numerals)	Hoy leí ciento veinte páginas.	Today I read one hundred twenty pages.
harto adj	harto	adj	tired, fed up	Estoy harto de esperar tanto.	I am fed up with waiting so long.
harto adv	harto	adv	extremely, aplenty, a lot	Hace harto frío esta mañana.	It's really cold this morning.
canadiense noun	canadiense	noun	Canadian (native or inhabitant of Canada)	La canadiense trabaja en nuestra oficina.	The Canadian woman works in our office.
canadiense adj	canadiense	adj	Canadian (of, from or relating to Canada)	Estudio cine canadiense en la universidad.	I study Canadian cinema at the university.
espacio noun	espacio	noun	space (distance between things)	El maestro pidió más espacio entre las palabras.	The teacher asked for more space between the words.
deseo noun	deseo	noun	desire, wish	Nuestros deseos cambian con el tiempo.	Our desires change over time.
economía noun	economía	noun	economy	Estudio economía para entender los mercados.	I study economics to understand the markets.
mundial adj	mundial	adj	related to all the parts of the world; global	La economía mundial cambia muy rápido.	The global economy changes very fast.
población noun	población	noun	population (of a geographical region, a country, etc.)	La población mundial está creciendo rápidamente.	The world population is growing rapidly.
divertir verb	divertir	verb	to entertain	Ella sabe divertir a sus invitados.	She knows how to entertain her guests.
enamorado adj	enamorado	adj	infatuated, having a crush on, feeling love or attraction for another	Me siento enamorado cuando la veo.	I feel in love when I see her.
enamorado noun	enamorado	noun	lover (person in love)	Los enamorados paseaban tomados de la mano.	The lovers were walking hand in hand.
especial adj	especial	adj	special (distinguished by a unique quality)	Este libro es muy especial para mí.	This book is very special to me.
especial noun	especial	noun	special	Compramos un especial de Navidad.	We bought a Christmas special.
fondo noun	fondo	noun	bottom	La taza tiene azúcar en el fondo.	The cup has sugar at the bottom.
marchar verb	marchar	verb	to go, travel	Si llueve, nos marcharemos más tarde.	If it rains, we'll leave later.
favorita noun	favorita	noun	female equivalent of favorito	No tengo favorita por ahora, decidiré mañana.	I don't have a favorite for now, I'll decide tomorrow.
carrera noun	carrera	noun	race	Él perdió la carrera por segundos.	He lost the race by seconds.
escritorio noun	escritorio	noun	writing desk	Compramos dos escritorios de madera oscura.	We bought two dark wood desks.
promesa noun	promesa	noun	promise	Ella siempre cumple su promesa.	She always keeps her promise.
tele noun	tele	noun	television	Compramos dos teles para las habitaciones.	We bought two TVs for the rooms.
distinto adj	distinto	adj	distinct	Mis hermanos tienen gustos muy distintos.	My siblings have very different tastes.
adónde adv	adónde	adv	to where, whither, whereto	¿Adónde vas después de clase?	Where are you going after class?
hincha noun	hincha	noun	an annoying person, hatred, megafan	xxx	xxx
cantante adj	cantante	adj	who sings, singing	Los hinchas cantantes no pararon en todo el partido.	The singing fans didn't stop for the entire match.
cantante noun	cantante	noun	singer	Los cantantes invitados llegaron muy temprano.	The guest singers arrived very early.
norte adj	norte	adj	north, northern	Vivimos en el barrio norte de la ciudad.	We live on the north side of the city.
norte noun	norte	noun	north wind	El norte trajo nubes y frío.	The north wind brought clouds and cold.
aguantar verb	aguantar	verb	to hold, withhold, hold back, retain (breath, urine)	¿Cuánto tiempo pueden aguantar sin ir al baño?	How long can you hold it without going to the bathroom?
quizá adv	quizá	adv	perhaps, maybe	Quizá te convenga estudiar más.	Maybe it would be better for you to study more.
provocar verb	provocar	verb	to cause or provoke, to prompt	La lluvia intensa provocó retrasos en la carretera.	The heavy rain caused delays on the highway.
sonido noun	sonido	noun	sound, noise	¿Puedes bajar el sonido, por favor?	Can you turn down the volume, please?
sábado noun	sábado	noun	Saturday	El sábado iremos al parque.	On Saturday we'll go to the park.
dedicar verb	dedicar	verb	to dedicate, to spend time	Cada día me dedico a estudiar español.	Every day I dedicate myself to studying Spanish.
ejercicio noun	ejercicio	noun	exercise	Necesito un ejercicio más para practicar.	I need one more exercise to practice.
basura noun	basura	noun	trash, waste, garbage, rubbish, nonsense	La bolsa de basura está llena.	The trash bag is full.
humor noun	humor	noun	mood	Necesito descansar para mejorar mi humor.	I need to rest to improve my mood.
universo noun	universo	noun	universe	Los científicos estudian el universo para comprenderlo.	Scientists study the universe to understand it.
revista noun	revista	noun	magazine	Busco una revista de ciencia para niños.	I'm looking for a children's science magazine.
entregar verb	entregar	verb	to deliver, to hand over, to hand off	Mañana entregaré el informe final.	Tomorrow I'll submit the final report.
verdaderamente adv	verdaderamente	adv	truthfully	Me siento verdaderamente feliz hoy.	I feel truly happy today.
nivel noun	nivel	noun	level, tier, height (distance relative to a given reference elevation)	El río alcanzó un nivel peligroso.	The river reached a dangerous level.
disparar verb	disparar	verb	to shoot, to fire (e.g. a weapon, a rocket)	¿Por qué disparaste tan deprisa?	Why did you shoot so quickly?
bueno intj	bueno	intj	okay; fine	Bueno, ¿qué te parece si practicamos?	Well, how about we practice?
sociología noun	sociología	noun	sociology	xxx	xxx
social adj	social	adj	social	Estudiamos problemas sociales en la clase de sociología.	We study social problems in sociology class.
lindo adj	lindo	adj	pretty	¡Qué vestido tan lindo llevas hoy!	What a pretty dress you're wearing today!
piel noun	piel	noun	skin	La piel del bebé es muy suave.	The baby's skin is very soft.
aconsejar verb	aconsejar	verb	to advise	He aconsejado a varios amigos.	I have advised several friends.
perdido adj	perdido	adj	lost	Estoy perdido en esta ciudad.	I am lost in this city.
nervioso adj	nervioso	adj	nerve	Llegó nerviosa a la reunión.	She arrived at the meeting nervous.
nota noun	nota	noun	note, memo	Escribí una nota rápida para recordar la cita.	I wrote a quick note to remember the appointment.
lápiz noun	lápiz	noun	pencil	Necesito un lápiz para escribir hoy.	I need a pencil to write today.
derecha noun	derecha	noun	right (direction)	La farmacia está a tu derecha ahora.	The pharmacy is on your right now.
energía noun	energía	noun	energy	Necesito más energía para terminar el proyecto.	I need more energy to finish the project.
normalmente adv	normalmente	adv	normally; usually; most of the time; customarily	Ella normalmente toma café sin azúcar.	She normally drinks coffee without sugar.
computadora noun	computadora	noun	computer	Necesito una computadora nueva para estudiar.	I need a new computer to study.
negociación noun	negociación	noun	bargain negotiation	xxx	xxx
interés noun	interés	noun	interest (an involvement or stake in an undertaking)	Protegieron el interés público durante la negociación.	They protected the public interest during the negotiation.
atreverse verb	atreverse	verb	infinitive of atrever combined with se	Hoy atreverse a hablar en público es mi objetivo.	Today daring to speak in public is my goal.
forestal adj	forestal	adj	forest	xxx	xxx
incendio noun	incendio	noun	fire (especially burning buildings or forests)	Hubo varios incendios forestales durante el verano.	There were several forest fires during the summer.
comentario noun	comentario	noun	comment	Puedo responder a tu comentario aquí.	I can respond to your comment here.
hielo noun	hielo	noun	ice	Caminaron sobre el hielo con cuidado.	They walked on the ice carefully.
computador noun	computador	noun	computer	Apaga el computador antes de salir.	Turn off the computer before leaving.
contestar verb	contestar	verb	to reply, retort, answer, respond	Intenté contestar, pero se cortó.	I tried to answer, but it got cut off.
pensamiento noun	pensamiento	noun	thought	Ese pensamiento me dio esperanza.	That thought gave me hope.
agrega verb	agrega	verb	inflection of agregar, second-person singular imperative, third-person singular present indicative 	xxx	xxx
cantidad noun	cantidad	noun	amount	Agrega una pequeña cantidad de sal.	Add a small amount of salt.
cantidad adv	cantidad	adv	like hell; a hell of a lot; shedloads	La película me gustó cantidad.	I liked the movie a lot.
pastel noun	pastel	noun	pastry	Vendían pasteles frescos en la panadería.	They used to sell fresh pastries at the bakery.
empleado adj	empleado	adj	employed	Estoy empleado desde el año pasado.	I have been employed since last year.
empleado noun	empleado	noun	employee	El empleado nuevo llegó temprano hoy.	The new employee arrived early today.
imagen noun	imagen	noun	image	La profesora analizó varias imágenes históricas.	The teacher analyzed several historical images.
presente adj	presente	adj	present (appearing)	El director estuvo presente en la reunión.	The director was present at the meeting.
presente noun	presente	noun	present, present tense	En el presente, vivimos cambios rápidos.	At present, we are experiencing rapid changes.
planear verb	planear	verb	to plan, to plot	Hoy planeamos el viaje de verano.	Today we are planning the summer trip.
alimentar verb	alimentar	verb	to feed into, reinforce.	Alimentaremos el proyecto con nuevas ideas.	We will feed the project with new ideas.
nativo adj	nativo	adj	native	Mi vecino es nativo de esta ciudad.	My neighbor is a native of this city.
nativo noun	nativo	noun	native of a place	Conocimos a un nativo del pueblo.	We met a native of the village.
avísame verb	avísame	verb	second-person singular imperative of avisar combined with me 	xxx	xxx
aumentar verb	aumentar	verb	to increase, grow	Si aumenta el dolor, avísame.	If the pain increases, let me know.
vaca noun	vaca	noun	cow (woman considered unpleasant, particularly one considered fat)	Los medios deben evitar llamar vaca a las mujeres.	The media must avoid calling women cows.
paciencia noun	paciencia	noun	patience, forbearance (the quality of being patient)	Necesitas mucha paciencia para aprender.	You need a lot of patience to learn.
oh intj	oh	intj	oh (expression of awe, surprise, pain or realization)	¡Oh! No sabía que venías.	Oh! I didn't know you were coming.
amistad noun	amistad	noun	friendship	Nuestra amistad creció con el tiempo.	Our friendship grew over time.
reunir verb	reunir	verb	to gather, to collect, to bring together, to assemble, to get together, to round up, to marshal, to compile, to put together, to pull together, to draw together, to pool	¿Puedes reunir a los estudiantes ahora?	Can you gather the students now?
equivocar verb	equivocar	verb	to mistake, mix up	Me equivoqué de número de teléfono.	I got the phone number wrong.
interesado adj	interesado	adj	interested	Estoy interesado en aprender español.	I am interested in learning Spanish.
conocimiento noun	conocimiento	noun	knowledge (as in acquaintance or familiarity with a person, place, or subject)	El conocimiento científico avanza cada día.	Scientific knowledge advances every day.
abajo adv	abajo	adv	down, downwards	El gato se escondió allá abajo.	The cat hid down there.
abajo intj	abajo	intj	down with, away with	Con voz unida gritaron: ¡Abajo la violencia!	With one voice, they shouted: Down with violence!
satisfecho adj	satisfecho	adj	satisfied	Estoy satisfecho con los resultados de hoy.	I am satisfied with today's results.
distancia noun	distancia	noun	distance	Las distancias largas requieren más planificación.	Long distances require more planning.
además adv	además	adv	in addition, moreover, furthermore, further, also, additionally	Además, debes llegar temprano mañana.	Also, you must arrive early tomorrow.
conocido adj	conocido	adj	known	La marca es muy conocida entre los jóvenes.	The brand is very well-known among young people.
conocido noun	conocido	noun	acquaintance, friend, known person	Invitaron a sus conocidos a la fiesta.	They invited their acquaintances to the party.
pardo adj	pardo	adj	dull, overcast, dun, brown, gruff, hoarse, mulatto	xxx	xxx
oso noun	oso	noun	bear (in general)	El oso pardo camina lentamente por el bosque.	The brown bear walks slowly through the forest.
viernes noun	viernes	noun	Friday	Trabajo hasta tarde los viernes.	I work late on Fridays.
techo noun	techo	noun	ceiling	Pintaron el techo de la sala ayer.	They painted the living room ceiling yesterday.
apoyar verb	apoyar	verb	to lean, to rest, to lie or lay	Apoya la espalda en la pared para descansar.	Lean your back against the wall to rest.
lenguaje noun	lenguaje	noun	language (the ability to communicate using words)	Los niños aprenden el lenguaje escuchando.	Children learn language by listening.
adelante adv	adelante	adv	forward (into the future)	Seguiremos adelante con nuestros sueños.	We will move forward with our dreams.
adelante intj	adelante	intj	come in	—¿Quién es? —¡Adelante, pueden pasar!	—Who is it? —Come in, you may enter!
acción noun	acción	noun	action, act, deed (something done)	La acción correcta a tiempo evita problemas.	The right action taken in time prevents problems.
acción intj	acción	intj	action (demanding the start of something)	El director gritó fuerte: ¡Acción! ¡Empezamos ahora!	The director shouted loudly: Action! We're starting now!
cuyo det	cuyo	det	whose	Visitamos el museo cuyas salas son enormes.	We visited the museum whose halls are enormous.
doce num	doce	num	twelve	Tengo doce libros en casa.	I have twelve books at home.
contrario adj	contrario	adj	contrary, opposite	Eso tuvo el efecto contrario.	That had the opposite effect.
primo noun	primo	noun	cousin (of male or unspecified gender)	Tengo dos primos que estudian medicina.	I have two cousins who study medicine.
solamente adv	solamente	adv	only, alone, merely	Solamente necesito cinco minutos más.	I only need five more minutes.
placer verb	placer	verb	to like (something or someone)	Nos place mucho ayudar a otros.	We greatly enjoy helping others.
placer noun	placer	noun	pleasure; something done to please	Encontramos placer en las cosas simples.	We find pleasure in the simple things.
medida noun	medida	noun	measurement; measure, gauge	Tomé la medida del mueble con una regla.	I measured the piece of furniture with a ruler.
recuperar verb	recuperar	verb	to recover	Quiero recuperar mi nivel de inglés.	I want to regain my level of English.
cubierto adj	cubierto	adj	covered	El coche estaba cubierto de nieve.	The car was covered in snow.
pesado adj	pesado	adj	heavy in weight, weighty	Aquellas bolsas llenas son pesadas y cuesta levantarlas.	Those full bags are heavy and it's hard to lift them.
pesado noun	pesado	noun	pest, annoying person	No seas un pesado en clase.	Don't be a pain in class.
seco adj	seco	adj	dry	El suelo está muy seco.	The ground is very dry.
temperatura noun	temperatura	noun	temperature	La temperatura hoy es bastante agradable.	Today's temperature is quite pleasant.
atrapar verb	atrapar	verb	to capture	El gato atrapa ratones por la noche.	The cat catches mice at night.
complicado adj	complicado	adj	complicated, complex, convoluted, involved, tricky, difficult, elaborate, cumbersome	Aprender japonés es complicado al principio.	Learning Japanese is hard at first.
responsable adj	responsable	adj	responsible, answerable	Ella es responsable de su tarea diaria.	She is responsible for her daily task.
efectivo adj	efectivo	adj	effective	Sus clases resultaron bastante efectivas para todos.	Their classes turned out to be quite effective for everyone.
efectivo noun	efectivo	noun	cash (money in the form of notes/bills and coins, as opposed to cheques/checks or electronic transactions)	¿Puedes pagar en efectivo, por favor?	Can you pay in cash, please?
pago noun	pago	noun	pay, payment	Aceptamos pagos en efectivo y con tarjeta.	We accept cash and card payments.
responsable noun	responsable	noun	person responsible, someone obliged, obligor	La responsable de pagos aclaró el error.	The person in charge of payments cleared up the mistake.
feo adj	feo	adj	ugly	Esa camisa me parece muy fea.	I find that shirt very ugly.
acceso noun	acceso	noun	access	Tengo acceso a la biblioteca pública.	I have access to the public library.
educación noun	educación	noun	education	Todo niño merece acceso a la educación.	Every child deserves access to education.
necesidad noun	necesidad	noun	need	Siento la necesidad de aprender más.	I feel the need to learn more.
conmocionar verb	conmocionar	verb	to shock (to cause to be emotionally shocked)	xxx	xxx
crimen noun	crimen	noun	violent crime	El crimen conmocionó a toda la ciudad.	The crime shocked the entire city.
enfadar verb	enfadar	verb	to anger, to make angry	Ese comentario enfada a mucha gente.	That comment angers a lot of people.
falso adj	falso	adj	false; untrue	Esa noticia es completamente falsa.	That news is completely false.
latín noun	latín	noun	Latin (the language of the ancient Romans)	xxx	xxx
cabo noun	cabo	noun	end, edge, extremity (furthest or terminal point of something)	Al cabo de una hora, llegaron todos.	After an hour, everyone arrived.
tía noun	tía	noun	female equivalent of tío: aunt; the sister, sister-in-law or female cousin or cousin-in-law of either parent	Mi tía vive cerca de nosotros.	My aunt lives near us.
arriba adv	arriba	adv	above, over	El avión voló alto, muy arriba.	The plane flew high, very high up.
arriba intj	arriba	intj	come on!	¡Arriba, que aún hay esperanza!	Cheer up, there's still hope!
señora noun	señora	noun	Ms; a title or form of address for a woman; formerly for a married, divorced, or widowed woman and now commonly for any adult woman regardless of marital status, depending on the region	Esa señora vive en nuestro edificio.	That lady lives in our building.
delicioso adj	delicioso	adj	delicious, delectable, luscious	Probé un pastel delicioso hoy.	I tried a delicious cake today.
muchísimo det	muchísimo	det	superlative degree of mucho: much, a great deal, a lot	Tengo muchísimo trabajo esta semana.	I have a great deal of work this week.
muchísimo adv	muchísimo	adv	superlative degree of mucho: a lot, very much	Estoy muchísimo más tranquilo ahora.	I'm so much calmer now.
dama noun	dama	noun	lady, dame	Las damas ocuparon los primeros asientos.	The ladies took the front seats.
aprovechar verb	aprovechar	verb	to make use of, to make the most of	Debemos aprovechar cada oportunidad de aprender.	We must seize every opportunity to learn.
ciego noun	ciego	noun	blind person	El ciego pidió ayuda para cruzar.	The blind man asked for help crossing.
ciego adj	ciego	adj	blind	El perro ciego necesita ayuda.	The blind dog needs help.
camión noun	camión	noun	lorry (UK); truck (US)	Escuchamos el camión desde lejos.	We heard the truck from far away.
herido adj	herido	adj	hurt, injured	Ella todavía está herida por el accidente.	She is still injured from the accident.
motivo noun	motivo	noun	reason, ground, motive	¿Cuál es el verdadero motivo de la reunión?	What is the real reason for the meeting?
señal noun	señal	noun	sign	Las señales de peligro eran claras.	The warning signs were clear.
ordenar verb	ordenar	verb	to order	Si ordenas ahora, llegará mañana.	If you order now, it will arrive tomorrow.
tarta noun	tarta	noun	pie, tart	¿Cuántas tartas necesitamos para la fiesta?	How many cakes do we need for the party?
atacar verb	atacar	verb	to attack, to come at	Quiero atacar el problema pronto.	I want to tackle the problem soon.
artista noun	artista	noun	artist	El artista trabaja de noche para crear.	The artist works at night to create.
sorpresa noun	sorpresa	noun	surprise (something not expected)	Me dieron una sorpresa en mi cumpleaños.	They gave me a surprise on my birthday.
alimento noun	alimento	noun	food (solid substance that can be consumed)	El perro comió su alimento seco lentamente.	The dog ate its dry food slowly.
dirigir verb	dirigir	verb	to direct	Ella dirige una empresa tecnológica.	She runs a tech company.
documento noun	documento	noun	document, paper	Perdí el documento en la oficina ayer.	I lost the document at the office yesterday.
vuelo noun	vuelo	noun	flight (an instance of flying)	Perdimos el vuelo por llegar tarde.	We missed the flight because we were late.
inventar verb	inventar	verb	to invent	Nosotros inventamos soluciones cuando falta tiempo.	We come up with solutions when time is short.
empleo noun	empleo	noun	job, employment	Encontró empleo gracias a un curso.	They found a job thanks to a course.
colgar verb	colgar	verb	to hang	¿Puedes colgar este cuadro aquí en la pared?	Can you hang this picture here on the wall?
zona noun	zona	noun	zone, district, area	En esa zona no hay señal.	There’s no signal in that area.
agradar verb	agradar	verb	to please, to agree with	¿Te agradaría venir con nosotros?	Would you like to come with us?
expresar verb	expresar	verb	to express	Si te expresas mejor, te entienden.	If you express yourself better, people will understand you.
despacio adv	despacio	adv	slowly	Escribe despacio para evitar errores.	Write slowly to avoid mistakes.
cercano adj	cercano	adj	near, nearby, close	¿Hay una farmacia cercana abierta esta noche?	Is there a nearby pharmacy open tonight?
alegría noun	alegría	noun	joy, happiness	Quiero compartir mi alegría contigo.	I want to share my joy with you.
lobo noun	lobo	noun	wolf	Vi un lobo cruzando el camino.	I saw a wolf crossing the road.
sabio adj	sabio	adj	learned	El profesor sabio explicó el tema claramente.	The wise professor explained the topic clearly.
sabio noun	sabio	noun	learned person	Esa sabia escribió libros sobre ciencia.	That wise woman wrote books about science.
actual adj	actual	adj	present, current	La situación actual requiere paciencia.	The current situation requires patience.
actual noun	actual	noun	of the current month, year, etc.	Hasta el actual no hubo problemas.	Up until the current one, there were no problems.
cincuenta num	cincuenta	num	fifty	Mañana cumpliré cincuenta años con alegría.	Tomorrow I will turn fifty with joy.
estrés noun	estrés	noun	stress	Aprender a manejar el estrés ayuda mucho.	Learning to manage stress helps a lot.
cabello noun	cabello	noun	hair (the mass of hairs on the head)	El cabello blanco apareció por el estrés.	The white hair appeared because of stress.
bienvenido adj	bienvenido	adj	welcome	Todos son bienvenidos en nuestra casa.	Everyone is welcome in our home.
bienvenido intj	bienvenido	intj	welcome (when saying this to a male)	¡Bienvenido al equipo, estamos contigo!	Welcome to the team, we're with you!
pantalón noun	pantalón	noun	trousers, pants, shorts	Llevo pantalones cortos para correr.	I wear shorts for running.
tráfico noun	tráfico	noun	traffic	Hay mucho tráfico cerca del estadio.	There is a lot of traffic near the stadium.
indicar verb	indicar	verb	to indicate, signal, designate	La señal indica: no avanzar.	The sign indicates: do not proceed.
boda noun	boda	noun	wedding	Ellos celebraron su boda en la primavera.	They celebrated their wedding in the spring.
sur noun	sur	noun	south	El sol cae temprano en el sur.	The sun sets early in the south.
posibilidad noun	posibilidad	noun	possibility	Existe la posibilidad de lluvia mañana.	There is a possibility of rain tomorrow.
opción noun	opción	noun	option	Tienes varias opciones para almorzar hoy.	You have several options for lunch today.
grave adj	grave	adj	serious, grave	El paciente está grave y necesita cuidados.	The patient is in serious condition and needs care.
izquierda noun	izquierda	noun	left	Siempre mira a la izquierda antes de cruzar.	Always look to the left before crossing.
bastar verb	bastar	verb	to be enough; to suffice	No bastó el esfuerzo que hicimos ayer.	The effort we made yesterday was not enough.
americano adj	americano	adj	American (of, from or relating to the Americas)	Las ciudades americanas crecieron rápidamente durante el siglo pasado.	American cities grew rapidly during the last century.
transformar verb	transformar	verb	to transform	La educación puede transformar vidas enteras.	Education can transform entire lives.
humanidad noun	humanidad	noun	humanity	La humanidad aprende de sus errores.	Humanity learns from its mistakes.
sencillo adj	sencillo	adj	plain	Buscamos una solución sencilla al problema.	We are looking for a simple solution to the problem.
sencillo noun	sencillo	noun	single	Escuché su nuevo sencillo hoy.	I listened to their new single today.
botón noun	botón	noun	button (clothing, mechanical)	Se me cayó un botón de la camisa hoy.	A button fell off my shirt today.
participar verb	participar	verb	to participate, to take part, to partake	Si todos participamos, terminaremos más rápido.	If we all participate, we'll finish faster.
bolsillo noun	bolsillo	noun	pocket	Los niños guardaron piedras en los bolsillos.	The children put stones in their pockets.
acostumbrar verb	acostumbrar	verb	accustom, inure, familiarize	Me estoy acostumbrando a levantarme temprano.	I'm getting used to getting up early.
destino noun	destino	noun	destiny, fate	Siempre he creído en el destino.	I have always believed in fate.
ondear verb	ondear	verb	to flutter, flap, to undulate, to wave	xxx	xxx
bandera noun	bandera	noun	flag	La bandera ondeaba con fuerza por el viento.	The flag was flapping strongly in the wind.
prohibido adj	prohibido	adj	forbidden	Acceso prohibido para menores de edad.	Access prohibited for minors.
pareja noun	pareja	noun	couple	Cada pareja del ejercicio debe resolver el problema en equipo.	Each pair in the exercise must solve the problem as a team.
bebida noun	bebida	noun	drink, beverage	Me encanta esta bebida fría.	I love this cold drink.
mapa noun	mapa	noun	map (sheet with geographical information on it)	Necesito el mapa para llegar al museo.	I need the map to get to the museum.
rechazar verb	rechazar	verb	to reject, to turn down, to turn away, to refuse, to dismiss, to shun, to decline	Ella rechaza cualquier tipo de violencia.	She rejects any kind of violence.
solemnidad noun	solemnidad	noun	festiveness, solemnity	xxx	xxx
matrimonio noun	matrimonio	noun	matrimony (sacrament)	La Iglesia celebra el matrimonio con solemnidad.	The Church celebrates marriage with solemnity.
mudar verb	mudar	verb	to move, relocate, move to a new house	¿Cuándo piensas mudarte a ese barrio?	When do you plan to move to that neighborhood?
emocionante adj	emocionante	adj	touching	Sus palabras sinceras fueron emocionantes y llenas de esperanza.	Their sincere words were moving and full of hope.
pelota noun	pelota	noun	ball game	Ayer vimos un partido de pelota emocionante.	Yesterday we watched an exciting ball game.
significado adj	significado	adj	well-known	Son miembros muy significados de la comunidad.	They are very prominent members of the community.
significado noun	significado	noun	meaning	No entiendo el significado de esta palabra.	I don't understand the meaning of this word.
fácilmente adv	fácilmente	adv	easily	Ella resolvió ayer el problema fácilmente.	She solved the problem easily yesterday.
confesar verb	confesar	verb	to confess, to come clean about	Nunca confesamos porque teníamos miedo.	We never confessed because we were afraid.
tercero adj	tercero	adj	third	Vivimos en el tercer piso.	We live on the third floor.
tercero noun	tercero	noun	third party	No compartimos datos con terceros.	We do not share data with third parties.
piscina noun	piscina	noun	swimming pool	Las piscinas públicas abren temprano en verano.	Public pools open early in summer.
hola intj	hola	intj	hello, hi, hey	Hola, gracias por venir temprano.	Hello, thanks for coming early.
demostrar verb	demostrar	verb	to show, to demonstrate	Ella demuestra paciencia en momentos difíciles.	She demonstrates patience in difficult moments.
pollo noun	pollo	noun	chicken (meat)	Pedimos una sopa de pollo caliente.	We ordered hot chicken soup.
religión noun	religión	noun	religion	Su interés por la religión creció después del viaje.	Their interest in religion grew after the trip.
calidad noun	calidad	noun	quality (level of excellence)	La calidad del servicio fue excelente hoy.	The quality of the service was excellent today.
sano adj	sano	adj	healthy, sound	Comer verduras es muy sano.	Eating vegetables is very healthy.
brillar verb	brillar	verb	to shine	Las estrellas brillan en la noche.	The stars shine at night.
época noun	época	noun	epoch, era, age, time, day	Fue una época difícil para todos.	It was a difficult time for everyone.
pizza noun	pizza	noun	pizza	Hoy comimos una pizza deliciosa juntos.	Today we ate a delicious pizza together.
teoría noun	teoría	noun	theory	Según la teoría, los resultados deberían repetirse.	According to the theory, the results should repeat themselves.
propósito noun	propósito	noun	purpose	Mi propósito es aprender cada día.	My purpose is to learn every day.
asistir verb	asistir	verb	to attend (an event)	Cuando era niño, asistía a partidos locales.	When I was a child, I attended local matches.
expendedor noun	expendedor	noun	seller	xxx	xxx
moneda noun	moneda	noun	coin (piece of currency in the shape of a disc)	Puse una moneda en la máquina expendedora.	I put a coin in the vending machine.
explicación noun	explicación	noun	explanation	Agradezco tu explicación sobre el problema.	I appreciate your explanation about the problem.
club noun	club	noun	club (an association of members joining together for some common purpose, especially sports or recreation)	El club de fútbol entrena cada tarde.	The football club trains every afternoon.
acusar verb	acusar	verb	to accuse, charge, indict	Temían que nos acusaran por error.	They feared that we would be accused by mistake.
ahorrar verb	ahorrar	verb	to save (to store for future use)	Deberíamos ahorrar agua en verano.	We should save water in summer.
culpable adj	culpable	adj	guilty, culpable	No te considero culpable de nada.	I don't consider you guilty of anything.
culpable noun	culpable	noun	culpable person	La policía aún no encuentra al culpable.	The police still haven't found the culprit.
sombra noun	sombra	noun	shadow (a dark image projected onto a surface where light (or other radiation) is blocked by the shade of an object)	Las sombras de las montañas avanzaban lentamente.	The shadows of the mountains were moving slowly.
león noun	león	noun	lion	Observamos a los leones beber agua limpia.	We watched the lions drink clean water.
muchacha noun	muchacha	noun	female equivalent of muchacho: girl, young lady	La muchacha lee un libro interesante.	The girl reads an interesting book.
teatro noun	teatro	noun	theater; drama (drama or performance as a profession or art form)	Vamos al teatro esta noche.	We're going to the theater tonight.
disculpar verb	disculpar	verb	to excuse, forgive, pardon	Siempre disculpamos a los niños pequeños.	We always excuse little children.
móvil adj	móvil	adj	mobile	Necesitamos una biblioteca móvil para los barrios.	We need a mobile library for the neighborhoods.
móvil noun	móvil	noun	cellular, cell phone (US), mobile phone (UK, Australia)	Olvidé mi móvil en casa.	I forgot my mobile phone at home.
ignorar verb	ignorar	verb	to not know; to be ignorant of	Seguimos ignorando cómo ocurrió todo realmente.	We still don't know how everything really happened.
cola noun	cola	noun	tail	El perro movía la cola contento en el parque.	The dog was wagging its tail happily in the park.
desierto adj	desierto	adj	desert	Encontramos la playa desierta en invierno.	We found the beach deserted in winter.
desierto noun	desierto	noun	desert	Cruzaron el desierto siguiendo las estrellas.	They crossed the desert following the stars.
terremoto noun	terremoto	noun	earthquake	El terremoto sorprendió a todos mientras dormían.	The earthquake surprised everyone while they were sleeping.
riesgo noun	riesgo	noun	chance; risk; the possibility of harm or an unfavorable outcome from random chance	El riesgo de incendio aumentó hoy.	The risk of fire increased today.
mirada noun	mirada	noun	look, glance	Su mirada me resultó extraña hoy.	Their gaze seemed strange to me today.
vergüenza noun	vergüenza	noun	shame	Me da vergüenza hablar en público.	I feel embarrassed to speak in public.
impedir verb	impedir	verb	to impede, hinder	No quiero impedir tus planes hoy.	I don't want to impede your plans today.
objeto noun	objeto	noun	object	Perdí el objeto en el parque ayer.	I lost the object in the park yesterday.
torta noun	torta	noun	tart, pie	Las tortas de queso quedaron deliciosas esta mañana.	The cheesecakes turned out delicious this morning.
cárcel noun	cárcel	noun	prison	Las cárceles están llenas de historias.	Prisons are full of stories.
dificultad noun	dificultad	noun	difficulty, trouble, problem, challenge, constraint, strenuousness, arduousness	Tuve dificultad para entender la explicación del profesor.	I had difficulty understanding the professor's explanation.
herida noun	herida	noun	wound	La herida en su brazo dolía mucho.	The wound on their arm hurt a lot.
destruir verb	destruir	verb	to destroy	No quiero destruir nuestra amistad.	I don't want to destroy our friendship.
remedio noun	remedio	noun	remedy, solution	Buscamos un remedio rápido y seguro.	We are looking for a quick and safe remedy.
espejo noun	espejo	noun	mirror	El niño se mira en el espejo del baño.	The boy looks at himself in the bathroom mirror.
fábrica noun	fábrica	noun	factory	Esa empresa construyó una fábrica moderna y eficiente.	That company built a modern and efficient factory.
arena noun	arena	noun	sand, gravel	En la playa, la arena estaba muy caliente.	At the beach, the sand was very hot.
propuesta noun	propuesta	noun	proposal	Necesitamos revisar la propuesta final.	We need to review the final proposal.
inocente adj	inocente	adj	innocent	La niña parece completamente inocente.	The girl seems completely innocent.
inocente noun	inocente	noun	innocent person	El inocente negó todas las acusaciones.	The innocent person denied all the accusations.
lamento noun	lamento	noun	lament	Mi lamento se convirtió en silencio.	My lament turned into silence.
sobrevivir verb	sobrevivir	verb	to survive	Intento sobrevivir en una ciudad cara.	I'm trying to survive in an expensive city.
conciencia noun	conciencia	noun	conscience	Ella actuó según su conciencia.	She acted according to her conscience.
dibujar verb	dibujar	verb	to draw, to sketch	Ella dibujaba animales cuando era niña.	She used to draw animals when she was a child.
fantasma noun	fantasma	noun	ghost, phantom, wraith	El fantasma hacía ruidos en la escalera.	The ghost was making noises on the stairs.
movimiento noun	movimiento	noun	movement	Observamos el movimiento de las nubes.	We observed the movement of the clouds.
autor noun	autor	noun	author	Conocimos al autor durante la conferencia.	We met the author during the conference.
medicamento noun	medicamento	noun	medicine, medicament	¿A qué hora tomas tu medicamento diario?	What time do you take your daily medication?
gas noun	gas	noun	gas (an element or compound in such a state)	El gas natural se usa para cocinar en muchas casas.	Natural gas is used for cooking in many homes.
quizás adv	quizás	adv	maybe, perhaps	Quizás podamos vernos esta tarde.	Perhaps we can meet this afternoon.
sorprendido adj	sorprendido	adj	surprised	Los niños están sorprendidos por el regalo.	The children are surprised by the gift.
supermercado noun	supermercado	noun	supermarket	El supermercado abre a las ocho.	The supermarket opens at eight.
llamada noun	llamada	noun	call	Tenemos varias llamadas perdidas esta mañana.	We have several missed calls this morning.
nación noun	nación	noun	nation	La nación protegió sus recursos naturales.	The nation protected its natural resources.
llamado noun	llamado	noun	call	Hicieron un llamado a todos.	They made an appeal to everyone.
conocí verb	conocí	verb	first-person singular preterite indicative of conocer	xxx	xxx
llamado adj	llamado	adj	called	Conocí a una mujer llamada Rosa.	I met a woman named Rosa.
tomo noun	tomo	noun	tome, volume	Prestaron los dos tomos a mi hermana.	They lent the two volumes to my sister.
aspecto noun	aspecto	noun	aspect	Otro aspecto importante es la seguridad.	Another important aspect is safety.
corbata noun	corbata	noun	necktie, tie (piece of clothing)	Él siempre usa corbata en la oficina.	He always wears a tie at the office.
unir verb	unir	verb	to unite, join	Mañana uniremos fuerzas para ganar.	Tomorrow we will join forces to win.
conversación noun	conversación	noun	conversation	La conversación con mi profesora aclaró mis dudas.	The conversation with my professor cleared up my doubts.
obligar verb	obligar	verb	to force, to compel, to make (someone do something)	Mis padres me obligaron a volver temprano.	My parents made me come back early.
monte noun	monte	noun	mountain, mount	Los montes forman una frontera natural.	The mountains form a natural border.
premio noun	premio	noun	prize, award (honour or reward)	El premio mayor fue compartido.	The grand prize was shared.
mono adj	mono	adj	cute, pretty	Compré una taza mona para mi escritorio.	I bought a cute mug for my desk.
mono noun	mono	noun	monkey	La mona aprendió a usar herramientas.	The female monkey learned to use tools.
ocasión noun	ocasión	noun	occasion	¿Habrá otra ocasión para vernos?	Will there be another chance for us to meet?
apuntar verb	apuntar	verb	to point, to aim, to take aim (a weapon)	Siempre apuntaban al blanco correcto.	They always aimed at the correct target.
conejo noun	conejo	noun	rabbit, cony, coney (male or unspecified sex)	Cuidamos de dos conejos en casa.	We take care of two rabbits at home.
permiso noun	permiso	noun	permission	No tengo permiso para entrar aquí.	I don't have permission to enter here.
permiso intj	permiso	intj	excuse me, pardon	Permiso, necesito tomar ese asiento.	Excuse me, I need to take that seat.
billete noun	billete	noun	banknote, bill (paper currency)	¿Tienes cambio para este billete de veinte?	Do you have change for this twenty?
oscuridad noun	oscuridad	noun	darkness	La oscuridad impide ver con claridad.	The darkness prevents you from seeing clearly.
oído noun	oído	noun	hearing	Perdió el oído en un accidente de trabajo.	He lost his hearing in a workplace accident.
rostro noun	rostro	noun	face (the front part of the head)	Su rostro mostraba una tranquila sonrisa.	His face displayed a tranquil smile.
asustar verb	asustar	verb	to scare, to frighten, to spook	No quiero asustar a mi hermana menor.	I don't want to scare my little sister.
puro adj	puro	adj	pure, clear	Este oro puro vale mucho en el mercado.	This pure gold is worth a lot on the market.
puro adv	puro	adv	only, merely	Ella puro llora por cualquier cosa.	She just cries over anything.
puro noun	puro	noun	cigar, puro	Encendió un puro después de cenar.	He lit a cigar after dinner.
pérdida noun	pérdida	noun	loss	La pérdida de datos preocupa.	Data loss is concerning.
olor noun	olor	noun	smell, scent, odor	Hay un olor fuerte en la cocina.	There's a strong smell in the kitchen.
inteligencia noun	inteligencia	noun	intelligence	La lectura diaria alimenta la inteligencia.	Daily reading feeds intelligence.
personal adj	personal	adj	personal	Esta es una decisión personal importante.	This is an important personal decision.
personal noun	personal	noun	personnel, staff	El personal de seguridad respondió rápidamente.	The security staff responded quickly.
acento noun	acento	noun	accent (typographical line)	¿Dónde va el acento en la palabra teléfono?	Where does the accent go in the word teléfono?
castillo noun	castillo	noun	castle (a large building that is fortified and contains many defences)	Desde el castillo se ve el río.	From the castle you can see the river.
cuarenta num	cuarenta	num	forty	Mi padre tiene cuarenta años.	My father is forty years old.
inspirar verb	inspirar	verb	to inspire	Quiero inspirar a mis estudiantes siempre.	I want to always inspire my students.
carácter noun	carácter	noun	character (moral strength)	Su carácter tranquilo inspiraba confianza a todos.	Their calm demeanor inspired confidence in everyone.
económico adj	económico	adj	economic	Estudiamos la historia económica del país.	We study the country's economic history.
prisión noun	prisión	noun	prison (a place or institution of confinement, especially of long-term confinement for those convicted of serious crimes or otherwise considered undesirable by the government)	Ella salió de prisión ayer.	She was released from prison yesterday.
firmar verb	firmar	verb	to sign	¿Puedes firmar aquí, por favor?	Can you sign here, please?
polvo noun	polvo	noun	dust (fine, dry particles of matter found in the air and covering the surface of objects)	Abre la ventana, hay mucho polvo en el aire.	Open the window, there's a lot of dust in the air.
maleta noun	maleta	noun	suitcase (large piece of luggage)	Metí la ropa en la maleta nueva.	I put the clothes in the new suitcase.
fuente noun	fuente	noun	spring (water), fountain	Bebimos agua fresca en una fuente pública.	We drank cool water from a public fountain.
vecindario noun	vecindario	noun	neighbourhood	En este vecindario hay mercados, escuelas y parques.	In this neighborhood there are markets, schools and parks.
san noun	san	noun	financial, temporal-savings scheme; the participants periodically contribute a quota to a communal pot that is given to one member, based on his/her turn amongst all the others	 	We participated in two neighborhood cleanups.
adorar verb	adorar	verb	to adore (both literally and in the context of love)	Ayer adoré esa canción nueva.	Yesterday I adored that new song.
distinguir verb	distinguir	verb	to distinguish, discern	Puedo distinguir tu voz claramente.	I can distinguish your voice clearly.
droga noun	droga	noun	drug	La droga puede causar graves problemas.	Drugs can cause serious problems.
montura noun	montura	noun	assembling, frame, harness (gear used for riding), mount (animal used for riding), mounting	xxx	xxx
caballero noun	caballero	noun	horseman	Cada caballero cuidaba bien su montura.	Each knight took good care of their mount.
inútil adj	inútil	adj	useless, pointless	Tus esfuerzos fueron inútiles esta vez.	Your efforts were useless this time.
inútil noun	inútil	noun	a useless, hopeless person; idler, loafer	Los inútiles no existen; cualquiera puede mejorar.	Useless people don't exist; anyone can improve.
adoptar verb	adoptar	verb	to adopt (select)	Finalmente adoptaron la solución más simple.	They finally adopted the simplest solution.
beso noun	beso	noun	kiss	Quiero mandarte un beso grande.	I want to send you a big kiss.
talento noun	talento	noun	talent	Buscamos talentos jóvenes para el proyecto.	We are looking for young talent for the project.
internacional adj	internacional	adj	international	La economía internacional cambia rápidamente.	The international economy changes rapidly.
vinculante adj	vinculante	adj	binding	xxx	xxx
importancia noun	importancia	noun	importance	Aprender idiomas tiene importancia en el trabajo.	Learning languages is important at work.
juzgar verb	juzgar	verb	to judge, to adjudicate	Estamos juzgando demasiado rápido las ideas nuevas.	We are judging new ideas too quickly.
pata noun	pata	noun	paw, foot, leg (of an animal)	La vaca tenía una pata herida después del paseo.	The cow had an injured leg after the walk.
cerebro noun	cerebro	noun	brain	Cuidar el cerebro mejora la memoria y la atención.	Taking care of the brain improves memory and attention.
bañar verb	bañar	verb	to bathe oneself	Me estaba bañando cuando llamaste por teléfono.	I was taking a bath when you called.
recomendar verb	recomendar	verb	to recommend	Siempre recomiendan beber suficiente agua.	They always recommend drinking enough water.
hogar noun	hogar	noun	home	En mi hogar aprendí valores importantes.	At home I learned important values.
esposo noun	esposo	noun	husband	Mi esposo cocina la cena hoy.	My husband is cooking dinner today.
idiota noun	idiota	noun	idiot, moron, fool, dork, eejit	Nadie quiere parecer un idiota durante la presentación.	No one wants to look like an idiot during the presentation.
región noun	región	noun	region	Mi región tiene ríos y bosques.	My region has rivers and forests.
cuestión noun	cuestión	noun	matter, question, issue	Tenemos que discutir esta cuestión hoy.	We have to discuss this issue today.
conductor noun	conductor	noun	driver	El conductor respetó todas las señales.	The driver obeyed all the signs.
burlar verb	burlar	verb	to outwit, to outsmart, to circumvent, to trick, to deceive	Logró burlar a la policía anoche.	They managed to evade the police last night.
aceite noun	aceite	noun	oil	Revisa el nivel de aceite del coche.	Check the car's oil level.
quince num	quince	num	fifteen	Compramos quince libros para la clase.	We bought fifteen books for the class.
elefante noun	elefante	noun	elephant	El elefante es un animal muy grande y fuerte.	The elephant is a very large and strong animal.
lastimar verb	lastimar	verb	to injure	Cuidado, puedes lastimarte con ese cuchillo.	Careful, you can hurt yourself with that knife.
describir verb	describir	verb	to describe, represent in words	Mañana describiré los resultados del estudio.	Tomorrow I will describe the results of the study.
controlar verb	controlar	verb	to control, to rein in	No pude controlar la situación ayer.	I couldn't control the situation yesterday.
lanzar verb	lanzar	verb	to throw	En clase, lanzamos un avión de papel.	In class, we threw a paper airplane.
bolígrafo noun	bolígrafo	noun	ballpoint pen	Necesito un bolígrafo azul para escribir.	I need a blue pen to write.
supuesto adj	supuesto	adj	supposed, self-styled, alleged	Mostraron unas supuestas pruebas que eran falsas.	They showed some alleged evidence that was false.
sostener verb	sostener	verb	to hold, to hold up, to prop up, to sustain, to underpin (physically)	¿Puedes sostener esta caja pesada?	Can you hold this heavy box?
supuesto noun	supuesto	noun	assumption, hypothesis	Ese supuesto no se sostiene con los datos.	That assumption is not supported by the data.
parado adj	parado	adj	stopped, halted, immobile, idle	Estaban parados bajo la lluvia esperando.	They were standing in the rain waiting.
parado noun	parado	noun	unemployed person	Hay muchos parados en el barrio.	There are many unemployed people in the neighborhood.
escritor noun	escritor	noun	writer	Muchos escritores trabajan de noche en silencio.	Many writers work at night in silence.
casualidad noun	casualidad	noun	chance, coincidence, happenstance, fluke, accident	¿Fue una casualidad o lo planeaste?	Was it a coincidence or did you plan it?
muñeca noun	muñeca	noun	wrist	Me duele la muñeca derecha al escribir.	My right wrist hurts when I write.
yen noun	yen	noun	yen	El precio está en yenes japoneses.	The price is in Japanese yen.
honesto adj	honesto	adj	honest	Él intenta ser honesto consigo mismo.	He tries to be honest with himself.
altura noun	altura	noun	height	Ella mide su altura cada año.	She measures her height every year.
electrónico adj	electrónico	adj	electronic	Compré un libro electrónico muy barato.	I bought a very cheap e-book.
arruinar verb	arruinar	verb	to ruin	El accidente arruinó mi día.	The accident ruined my day.
apetecer verb	apetecer	verb	to feel like, to fancy; would like, to be down for (US slang)	¿Te apetece tomar un café?	Do you feel like having a coffee?
herir verb	herir	verb	to wound, injure (to cause physical injury and pain)	El cuchillo la hirió en la mano.	The knife injured her hand.
precioso adj	precioso	adj	precious	Su amistad es un regalo precioso.	Your friendship is a precious gift.
tomate noun	tomate	noun	tomato (fruit)	Compré tomates frescos en el mercado.	I bought fresh tomatoes at the market.
oferta noun	oferta	noun	offer (a proposal that has been made)	Acepté la oferta de trabajo ayer.	I accepted the job offer yesterday.
probable adj	probable	adj	probable, likely	Es poco probable que venga.	It's unlikely that he'll come.
trampa noun	trampa	noun	trap, snare (device for trapping animals)	Las trampas para aves necesitan revisarse todos los días.	Bird traps need to be checked every day.
pasaporte noun	pasaporte	noun	passport	Ella perdió su pasaporte ayer.	She lost her passport yesterday.
doble adj	doble	adj	double	Compraron una cama doble muy cómoda.	They bought a very comfortable double bed.
doble noun	doble	noun	double, twice as much	Ella gana el doble que yo.	She earns twice as much as I do.
pretender verb	pretender	verb	to intend, to aim (for/to)	Pretendo terminar el proyecto hoy.	I intend to finish the project today.
fingir verb	fingir	verb	to pretend (to act as though something is different from what it is)	Ella fingía dormir para escuchar.	She pretended to be asleep in order to listen.
generalizar verb	generalizar	verb	to generalize	xxx	xxx
tender verb	tender	verb	to tend to, to have a tendency	La gente tiende a generalizar demasiado.	People tend to generalize too much.
desactivar verb	desactivar	verb	to deactivate (to make something inactive), to disable (to deactivate a function of an electronic or mechanical device) 	xxx	xxx
bomba noun	bomba	noun	bomb (an explosive device used or intended as a weapon)	La policía desactivó una bomba en la estación.	The police defused a bomb at the station.
sed noun	sed	noun	thirst	Después de correr, tengo mucha sed.	After running, I am very thirsty.
despierto adj	despierto	adj	awake	Hoy estoy despierto desde las seis.	I've been awake since six today.
material adj	material	adj	material	Necesitamos pruebas materiales para sostener la acusación.	We need physical evidence to support the accusation.
material noun	material	noun	material	Trae el material para la clase.	Bring the materials for the class.
hombro noun	hombro	noun	shoulder	Me duele el hombro después de nadar.	My shoulder hurts after swimming.
hábito noun	hábito	noun	habit, custom	Romper un mal hábito puede ser difícil.	Breaking a bad habit can be difficult.
ascensor noun	ascensor	noun	elevator, lift	El ascensor tarda demasiado en llegar hoy.	The elevator is taking too long to arrive today.
visita noun	visita	noun	visit	Espero tu visita el próximo sábado.	I look forward to your visit next Saturday.
excepto prep	excepto	prep	except	A todos les respondí, excepto a ti.	I replied to everyone, except you.
descanso noun	descanso	noun	rest, break	Aprovecho el descanso para leer.	I take advantage of the break to read.
esquina noun	esquina	noun	corner	La tienda está en la esquina.	The store is on the corner.
cargo noun	cargo	noun	charge, burden	Ella quedó a cargo de la tienda.	She was left in charge of the store.
resfriado adj	resfriado	adj	afflicted with the common cold	Hoy estoy resfriado y muy cansado.	Today I have a cold and I'm very tired.
resfriado noun	resfriado	noun	a cold	El resfriado dura unos días normalmente.	A cold normally lasts a few days.
ejército noun	ejército	noun	army	El ejército avanzó por la frontera lentamente.	The army advanced along the border slowly.
cerdo adj	cerdo	adj	dirty	Ese filme es muy cerdo y no quiero verlo.	That film is really gross and I don't want to watch it.
cerdo noun	cerdo	noun	pig, hog	Vi un cerdo en el campo.	I saw a pig in the field.
meta noun	meta	noun	goal, target	Mi meta es aprender español.	My goal is to learn Spanish.
tontería noun	tontería	noun	something that is dumb	No digas tonterías en la reunión.	Don't talk nonsense in the meeting.
oreja noun	oreja	noun	outer ear; auricle	Me duele la oreja derecha desde ayer.	My right ear has been hurting since yesterday.
recuerdo noun	recuerdo	noun	memory	Perdí el recuerdo de su voz.	I've forgotten the sound of their voice.
contratar verb	contratar	verb	to contract, to take on	Estamos contratando a estudiantes para el verano.	We are hiring students for the summer.
araña noun	araña	noun	spider	Observamos arañas de colores en el jardín.	We observed colorful spiders in the garden.
rejuvenecer verb	rejuvenecer	verb	to rejuvenate	xxx	xxx
bob noun	bob	noun	bob, bob haircut (hairstyle)	Un bob corto puede rejuvenecer bastante.	A short bob can be quite rejuvenating.
método noun	método	noun	method	Aprendimos un nuevo método de estudio.	We learned a new study method.
personaje noun	personaje	noun	personage	Mi personaje favorito enfrenta sus miedos.	My favorite character faces their fears.
renunciar verb	renunciar	verb	to renounce, to abandon, to give up, to relinquish, to do without	Decidí renunciar a ese trabajo.	I decided to quit that job.
galleta noun	galleta	noun	cookie / biscuit	Quiero otra galleta con leche.	I want another cookie with milk.
cáncer noun	cáncer	noun	cancer	Después del cáncer, recuperó su energía lentamente.	After cancer, they slowly regained their energy.
respiración noun	respiración	noun	respiration	El médico escuchó su respiración con atención.	The doctor listened to their breathing attentively.
celular adj	celular	adj	cellular	Estudiamos la respiración celular en clase hoy.	We studied cellular respiration in class today.
celular noun	celular	noun	cell phone (US), mobile phone (UK, Australia)	¿Puedes llamar desde tu celular ahora?	Can you call from your cell phone now?
convexo adj	convexo	adj	convex	xxx	xxx
lente noun	lente	noun	lens	La lente convexa concentra la luz.	The convex lens focuses light.
absolutamente adv	absolutamente	adv	absolutely; completely; entirely; totally; utterly; wholly (in absolute manner)	Estoy absolutamente de acuerdo contigo.	I absolutely agree with you.
disculpa noun	disculpa	noun	excuse	Ofreció una disculpa sincera ayer.	They offered a sincere apology yesterday.
retirar verb	retirar	verb	to remove	Debemos retirar la basura hoy.	We must take out the trash today.
grado noun	grado	noun	degree	En cierto grado, me ayudó mucho.	To a certain degree, it helped me a lot.
esclavo noun	esclavo	noun	slave	El esclavo trabajaba largas horas en el campo.	The slave worked long hours in the field.
poseer verb	poseer	verb	to possess, to own, to hold, to have	Ellos poseen muchos libros antiguos.	They own many old books.
vídeo noun	vídeo	noun	video	Hoy vi un vídeo sobre historia.	Today I watched a video about history.
rueda noun	rueda	noun	circle (of people)	Nos sentamos en rueda para hablar.	We sat in a circle to talk.
dudar verb	dudar	verb	to doubt	Dudábamos de la oferta.	We were doubtful of the offer.
increíble adj	increíble	adj	incredible, unbelievable	Ayer, esta película fue realmente increíble.	Yesterday, this movie was really amazing.
emergencia noun	emergencia	noun	emergency	Las emergencias médicas requieren atención inmediata.	Medical emergencies require immediate attention.
vehículo noun	vehículo	noun	vehicle	El vehículo de emergencia pasó rápidamente.	The emergency vehicle passed quickly.
extremadamente adv	extremadamente	adv	extremely	Trabajaron extremadamente duro para terminar.	They worked extremely hard to finish.
toalla noun	toalla	noun	towel	Después de nadar, necesito una toalla seca.	After swimming, I need a dry towel.
girar verb	girar	verb	to turn, pivot	Ellos giraron lentamente hasta quedar frente a nosotros.	They turned slowly until they were facing us.
investigación noun	investigación	noun	investigation	La investigación produjo resultados muy claros.	The research produced very clear results.
atravesar verb	atravesar	verb	to cross, to traverse	Estoy atravesando un momento difícil, pero saldré adelante.	I'm going through a difficult time, but I'll get through it.
gallina noun	gallina	noun	hen	La gallina pone huevos frescos cada mañana.	The hen lays fresh eggs every morning.
asesinar verb	asesinar	verb	to murder	Ella fue acusada de asesinar a su compañero.	She was accused of murdering her partner.
complejo adj	complejo	adj	complex, sophisticated, intricate (made of multiple parts)	Este problema es bastante complejo.	This problem is quite complex.
complejo noun	complejo	noun	complex	El complejo de edificios ocupa toda la manzana.	The building complex occupies the entire city block.
moda noun	moda	noun	fashion	Me interesa la historia de la moda.	I'm interested in the history of fashion.
horrible adj	horrible	adj	horrible	La película fue horrible y aburrida.	The movie was horrible and boring.
artificial adj	artificial	adj	artificial	La respiración artificial puede salvar vidas.	Artificial respiration can save lives.
apartamento noun	apartamento	noun	flat, apartment	Estamos buscando un apartamento con dos habitaciones.	We are looking for an apartment with two bedrooms.
ciudadano noun	ciudadano	noun	citizen	Los ciudadanos votaron en las elecciones locales.	The citizens voted in the local elections.
respirar verb	respirar	verb	to breathe	Bajo el agua, no respires.	Under water, do not breathe.
dueño noun	dueño	noun	owner, proprietor, landlord	Conocí a los dueños del restaurante italiano.	I met the owners of the Italian restaurant.
espada noun	espada	noun	spade (playing card marked with the symbol ♠)	No tenía espadas, así que jugó un corazón.	He didn't have any spades, so he played a heart.
mediante prep	mediante	prep	by means of, through, using	Aprendí programación mediante cursos en línea.	I learned programming through online courses.
repetición noun	repetición	noun	repetition, repetition, rep (colloquial), replay, action replay	xxx	xxx
retroalimentación noun	retroalimentación	noun	feedback	xxx	xxx
motor adj	motor	adj	moving	El aprendizaje motor ocurre mediante repetición y retroalimentación.	Motor learning occurs through repetition and feedback.
motor noun	motor	noun	engine	El motor del coche hace ruido.	The car's engine makes noise.
afectar verb	afectar	verb	to affect, to have an effect on, to influence	El clima frío afecta nuestra salud.	Cold weather affects our health.
disculpe intj	disculpe	intj	excuse me; pardon me	Disculpe, ¿aceptan pago con tarjeta?	Excuse me, do you accept card payments?
adulto adj	adulto	adj	adult	Ofrecemos cursos para estudiantes adultos.	We offer courses for adult students.
adulto noun	adulto	noun	adult	Muchos adultos prefieren leer noticias por la mañana.	Many adults prefer to read the news in the morning.
prestado adj	prestado	adj	lent, loaned	Llegamos en un coche prestado ese día.	We arrived in a borrowed car that day.
pillar verb	pillar	verb	to catch, get, to grab (e.g. grab a cab, get lunch, grab a drink, catch a movie)	¿Quieres pillar algo de comer?	Do you want to grab something to eat?
privado adj	privado	adj	private, privy (e.g. a privy council)	Protege siempre tus datos privados.	Always protect your private data.
red noun	red	noun	web, mesh	En clase aprendimos cómo funciona la red de computadoras.	In class we learned how the computer network works.
semejante adj	semejante	adj	similar	Estas dos ideas son muy semejantes.	These two ideas are very similar.
poeta noun	poeta	noun	poet	Conocimos a varios poetas jóvenes hoy.	We met several young poets today.
morder verb	morder	verb	to bite, nip	Si sigues molestándolo, te morderá.	If you keep bothering him, he will bite you.
justicia noun	justicia	noun	justice	La justicia tarda, pero llega finalmente.	Justice is slow, but it eventually arrives.
ataque noun	ataque	noun	attack, offensive	El ataque del perro asustó a todos.	The dog's attack frightened everyone.
sabor noun	sabor	noun	flavor; taste	El sabor del tomate es fresco.	The flavor of the tomato is fresh.
miel noun	miel	noun	honey	Me gusta el té con miel.	I like tea with honey.
advertir verb	advertir	verb	to warn	Quiero advertirles que habrá retrasos mañana.	I want to warn you that there will be delays tomorrow.
gracioso adj	gracioso	adj	funny, amusing	Esos chistes graciosos me hacen reír.	Those funny jokes make me laugh.
materno adj	materno	adj	mother	Mi lengua materna es el español.	My mother tongue is Spanish.
diablo noun	diablo	noun	devil	Dicen que el diablo nunca duerme.	They say the devil never sleeps.
averiguar verb	averiguar	verb	to find out, figure out, work out, determine	Ella averiguó quién llamó anoche.	She found out who called last night.
cuello noun	cuello	noun	neck (part of body connecting the head and the torso)	Sentí tensión en el cuello después de muchas horas sentado.	I felt tension in my neck after many hours of sitting.
preferido adj	preferido	adj	preferred, of choice	Su libro preferido es una novela histórica.	Their favorite book is a historical novel.
preferido noun	preferido	noun	favorite (e.g. favorite to win)	Mi preferido en la carrera terminó tercero.	My favorite in the race finished third.
respeto noun	respeto	noun	respect	Mi respeto por tu esfuerzo es sincero.	My respect for your effort is sincere.
dios noun	dios	noun	god	Gracias a Dios, llegamos a tiempo.	Thank God, we arrived on time.
estómago noun	estómago	noun	stomach (an organ in animals that stores food in the process of digestion)	Mi estómago está vacío por la mañana.	My stomach is empty in the morning.
financiero adj	financiero	adj	financial	Necesitamos educación financiera para todos.	We need financial education for everyone.
enseguida adv	enseguida	adv	immediately	Si tienes dudas, pregunta enseguida.	If you have doubts, ask right away.
separar verb	separar	verb	to separate, to detach (to disunite from a group or mass; to disconnect)	Si se separan temprano, llegarán a tiempo.	If they split up early, they will arrive on time.
golf noun	golf	noun	golf	Mi abuelo juega al golf los domingos por la mañana.	My grandfather plays golf on Sunday mornings.
mentiroso adj	mentiroso	adj	having the qualities of a liar	Ellos son mentirosos cuando temen las consecuencias.	They are liars when they fear the consequences.
mentiroso noun	mentiroso	noun	liar	Ese mentiroso siempre cambia su historia.	That liar always changes his story.
víctima noun	víctima	noun	victim	La víctima del accidente recibió ayuda inmediata.	The victim of the accident received immediate help.
izquierdo adj	izquierdo	adj	left; on the left side or toward the left; the opposite of right	El ojo izquierdo me duele hoy.	My left eye hurts today.
vencer verb	vencer	verb	to defeat, to win, to conquer	Ella siempre vence las dificultades.	She always overcomes difficulties.
incapaz adj	incapaz	adj	incapable, unable	Somos incapaces de imaginar ese futuro.	We are unable to imagine that future.
soltar verb	soltar	verb	to release	Ella soltó su mano lentamente.	She let go of his hand slowly.
kilómetro noun	kilómetro	noun	kilometre; kilometer (US)	Faltan dos kilómetros para llegar.	There are two kilometers left to get there.
plata adj	plata	adj	argent	Vi un auto plata en la esquina.	I saw a silver car at the corner.
electricidad noun	electricidad	noun	electricity	Sin electricidad, muchos servicios dejarían de funcionar.	Without electricity, many services would stop working.
plata noun	plata	noun	silver	La plata conduce bien la electricidad.	Silver conducts electricity well.
callar verb	callar	verb	to calm	Por favor calla la radio.	Please silence the radio.
voluntad noun	voluntad	noun	will, wish, want, desire	Su voluntad de ayudar impresiona.	Their willingness to help is impressive.
consciente adj	consciente	adj	aware, cognizant	Sé consciente de tus decisiones.	Be mindful of your decisions.
obedecer verb	obedecer	verb	to obey	Decidimos obedecer para evitar problemas.	We decided to obey to avoid problems.
comienzo noun	comienzo	noun	beginning	El comienzo de la película fue emocionante.	The beginning of the movie was exciting.
fiebre noun	fiebre	noun	fever	La fiebre desapareció después de dormir bien.	The fever went away after sleeping well.
facilidad noun	facilidad	noun	ease (skill, facility)	Aprendió a nadar con facilidad desde pequeño.	He learned to swim easily from a young age.
comunicar verb	comunicar	verb	to communicate	Nos comunicamos por correo cuando viajamos.	We communicate by email when we travel.
tímido adj	tímido	adj	shy, timid, bashful, coy	Ella parece tímida, pero amable.	She seems shy but friendly.
saludar verb	saludar	verb	to greet	Cuando llegues, saluda con una sonrisa.	When you arrive, greet with a smile.
pecho noun	pecho	noun	thorax	Me duele el pecho al respirar.	My chest hurts when I breathe.
juntar verb	juntar	verb	to combine, unite	Quiero juntar nuestras ideas hoy.	I want to put our ideas together today.
epiléptico adj	epiléptico	adj	epileptic	xxx	xxx
crisis noun	crisis	noun	attack; fit	El paciente tuvo una crisis epiléptica en clase.	The patient had an epileptic seizure in class.
embarazado adj	embarazado	adj	pregnant	Ella está embarazada y muy feliz.	She is pregnant and very happy.
origen noun	origen	noun	origin	Cada costumbre tiene su propio origen.	Each custom has its own origin.
desgracia noun	desgracia	noun	disgrace	Su mentira fue una desgracia para la familia.	Their lie was a misfortune for the family.
proponer verb	proponer	verb	to propose, to propound, to put forth, to put forward, to bring forward, to suggest	Ellos proponen cambiar el horario.	They propose changing the schedule.
sospechoso noun	sospechoso	noun	suspect	La sospechosa negó todas las acusaciones.	The suspect denied all the accusations.
discusión noun	discusión	noun	discussion	En casa, la discusión terminó rápidamente.	At home, the argument ended quickly.
consumir verb	consumir	verb	to consume	Mañana consumiré menos datos móviles.	Tomorrow I will use less mobile data.
india noun	india	noun	female equivalent of indio	Esa india habla tres lenguas de su pueblo.	That Indigenous woman speaks three languages of her people.
extender verb	extender	verb	to extend, to expand	La empresa quiere extender sus operaciones internacionales.	The company wants to expand its international operations.
límite noun	límite	noun	limit, threshold, cutoff, cut-off	Conocer mis límites me ayuda a cuidarme.	Knowing my limits helps me take care of myself.
defender verb	defender	verb	to defend, to protect, to hold down (contra (“against”), de (“from”))	Defenderemos nuestros derechos si es necesario.	We will defend our rights if necessary.
cargar verb	cargar	verb	to load (to load a software into the primary memory)	El programa carga las bibliotecas necesarias en memoria.	The program loads the necessary libraries into memory.
batalla noun	batalla	noun	battle	La batalla causó grandes pérdidas humanas.	The battle caused heavy loss of life.
caber verb	caber	verb	to fit, enter (to be able to be contained (by something; regardless of whether space or volume remains))	No cabemos todos en el coche.	We can't all fit in the car.
océano noun	océano	noun	ocean	El océano influye en el clima mundial.	The ocean influences the global climate.
azucarado adj	azucarado	adj	sugary	xxx	xxx
impuesto noun	impuesto	noun	impost	Pagamos un impuesto especial por bebidas azucaradas.	We pay a special tax on sugary drinks.
culpar verb	culpar	verb	to blame	Yo no te culparía por dudar.	I wouldn't blame you for doubting.
control noun	control	noun	control, or running of a business	Perdieron el control financiero por la mala planificación.	They lost financial control due to poor planning.
consistir verb	consistir	verb	to consist of	Nuestras tareas consisten en resolver problemas.	Our tasks consist of solving problems.
venta noun	venta	noun	sale	La venta comenzó a las nueve.	The sale began at nine.
expresión noun	expresión	noun	expression	Algunas expresiones se traducen con dificultad.	Some expressions are difficult to translate.
salida noun	salida	noun	exit, way out	Sigue las señales hacia la salida.	Follow the signs toward the exit.
tamaño noun	tamaño	noun	size	Necesito saber el tamaño correcto.	I need to know the correct size.
salvo adj	salvo	adj	safe	Todos están sanos y salvos ahora.	Everyone is safe and sound now.
salvo adv	salvo	adv	except, apart from	Iré cualquier día, salvo mañana.	I'll go any day, except tomorrow.
gratis adj	gratis	adj	free, without charge	El museo ofrece entrada gratis los domingos.	The museum offers free admission on Sundays.
gratis adv	gratis	adv	free, without charge	Los niños comen gratis los domingos.	Children eat free on Sundays.
falda noun	falda	noun	skirt	Prefiere usar faldas en verano.	She prefers to wear skirts in summer.
aproximadamente adv	aproximadamente	adv	approximately	Vivimos a aproximadamente cinco kilómetros.	We live about five kilometers away.
multitud noun	multitud	noun	multitude	La multitud avanzó lentamente hacia las puertas.	The crowd moved slowly toward the doors.
mínimo adj	mínimo	adj	minimal	La temperatura mínima bajará esta noche.	The minimum temperature will drop tonight.
mínimo noun	mínimo	noun	minimum	No alcanzó el mínimo para aprobar.	They didn't meet the minimum to pass.
habilidad noun	habilidad	noun	ability, skill	Su habilidad matemática lo sorprendió bastante.	Their mathematical ability surprised him quite a bit.
bolso noun	bolso	noun	purse	Puse las llaves en mi bolso rojo.	I put the keys in my red purse.
débil adj	débil	adj	weak	El puente es muy débil todavía.	The bridge is still very weak.
vela noun	vela	noun	candle	Encendí una vela durante la cena.	I lit a candle during dinner.
profundamente adv	profundamente	adv	profoundly, deeply	Pensé profundamente antes de decidir.	I thought deeply before deciding.
impresión noun	impresión	noun	impression	La primera impresión a veces engaña.	First impressions are sometimes deceiving.
anillo noun	anillo	noun	ring	Ella perdió su anillo en la playa ayer.	She lost her ring at the beach yesterday.
mentar verb	mentar	verb	to mention, name	Han mentado tu nombre varias veces hoy.	They have mentioned your name several times today.
reina noun	reina	noun	queen	La joven reina tomó decisiones difíciles.	The young queen made difficult decisions.
oveja noun	oveja	noun	sheep	Contamos ovejas para quedarnos dormidos.	We count sheep to fall asleep.
victoria noun	victoria	noun	victory	Compartieron sus victorias con la comunidad.	They shared their victories with the community.
actor noun	actor	noun	actor (person who performs in a theatrical play or movie)	El actor famoso saludó a todos.	The famous actor greeted everyone.
kilo noun	kilo	noun	kilo (kilogram)	Compré un kilo de manzanas frescas hoy.	I bought a kilo of fresh apples today.
mencionar verb	mencionar	verb	to mention	Quiero mencionar un detalle importante hoy.	I want to mention an important detail today.
torre noun	torre	noun	tower	Pintaron las torres con colores brillantes.	They painted the towers with bright colors.
arrojar verb	arrojar	verb	to throw, to hurl, to toss, to fling (cause an object to move rapidly through the air)	El niño arroja la pelota al jardín todos los días.	The boy throws the ball into the garden every day.
valiente adj	valiente	adj	brave, courageous, fearless	Ella es muy valiente y amable.	She is very brave and kind.
honor noun	honor	noun	honor	Es un honor estar aquí contigo.	It is an honor to be here with you.
vengar verb	vengar	verb	to avenge, get even, take revenge	No deberías vengarte de tus amigos por errores pequeños.	You shouldn't take revenge on your friends for small mistakes.
anterior adj	anterior	adj	anterior (in time), previous, earlier, former, past	Mi jefe anterior me enseñó mucho.	My previous boss taught me a lot.
espíritu noun	espíritu	noun	spirit, soul	Su espíritu fuerte siempre la ayudó.	Her strong spirit always helped her.
parada noun	parada	noun	stop (the act of stopping)	Hicimos una parada para descansar.	We made a stop to rest.
acto noun	acto	noun	act	El acto fue emocionante para todos.	The event was exciting for everyone.
fortuna noun	fortuna	noun	fortune	Por fortuna, llegamos a tiempo hoy.	Fortunately, we arrived on time today.
agregar verb	agregar	verb	to add, collect, aggregate, collate, gather	Vamos a agregar más ejemplos a la lista.	We are going to add more examples to the list.
avisar verb	avisar	verb	to tell, tip off, notify, inform	Apenas llegue, voy a avisarte.	As soon as I arrive, I'm going to let you know.
ahogar verb	ahogar	verb	to drown (be suffocated in water)	El niño se ahogó en el río helado.	The boy drowned in the frozen river.
fracasar verb	fracasar	verb	to fail, flop, lose	El proyecto fracasó por mala planificación.	The project failed due to poor planning.
recién adv	recién	adv	just	Recién nos mudamos a este barrio.	We just moved to this neighborhood.
borrar verb	borrar	verb	to erase or delete	Ayer borré sin querer el mensaje.	Yesterday I accidentally deleted the message.
reducir verb	reducir	verb	to reduce, to lower, to cut, to scale back	Si no reduces la velocidad, podrías tener un accidente.	If you don't slow down, you could have an accident.
sospechar verb	sospechar	verb	to suspect	Sospecho que alguien me miente.	I suspect that someone is lying to me.
lección noun	lección	noun	lesson (a section of a religious text)	La lección de Isaías nos inspira esperanza.	The lesson from Isaiah inspires us with hope.
conversar verb	conversar	verb	to talk, converse	Conversando con el profesor, aprendí mucho.	While talking with the professor, I learned a lot.
fecha noun	fecha	noun	date (that which specifies the time when something was made)	Escribe la fecha completa con día, mes y año.	Write the full date with day, month, and year.
familiar adj	familiar	adj	familial, family	La empresa familiar la dirigía mi madre.	The family business was run by my mother.
familiar noun	familiar	noun	relative, family member	¿Conoces a algún familiar suyo?	Do you know any of their relatives?
posición noun	posición	noun	position	Me siento cómodo en esta posición.	I feel comfortable in this position.
ensalada noun	ensalada	noun	salad	¿Podrías compartir la receta de tu ensalada favorita?	Could you share the recipe for your favorite salad?
santo adj	santo	adj	holy, godly	Para ellos, el matrimonio es santo.	For them, marriage is sacred.
santo noun	santo	noun	male saint	El pueblo celebra la fiesta del santo.	The town celebrates the feast of the saint.
marcar verb	marcar	verb	to mark, to set	Por favor, marca la respuesta correcta.	Please mark the correct answer.
genial adj	genial	adj	genial, pleasant	Tienen vecinos geniales que siempre ayudan.	They have great neighbors who always help.
dibujo noun	dibujo	noun	drawing	Hicimos un dibujo sencillo con lápices.	We made a simple drawing with pencils.
juventud noun	juventud	noun	youth	La juventud necesita espacios seguros.	Young people need safe spaces.
hierba noun	hierba	noun	herb	Añadí hierbas frescas a la sopa.	I added fresh herbs to the soup.
risa noun	risa	noun	laugh, laughter (sound of laughing)	Sus risas llenaron toda la sala.	Their laughter filled the whole room.
banda noun	banda	noun	band, sash	La banda tocó en la plaza anoche.	The band played in the square last night.
criar verb	criar	verb	to rear or raise (e.g., a child)	Mi abuela me crió desde pequeño.	My grandmother raised me since I was little.
escoger verb	escoger	verb	to choose, select, pick	Mi hermano escogió un regalo perfecto.	My brother chose a perfect gift.
vestir verb	vestir	verb	to dress, to clothe, to attire	¿Puedes vestir al niño antes de salir?	Can you dress the child before going out?
cobertura noun	cobertura	noun	cover (something to physically cover), coverage (e.g. of a story in a newspaper), reception; signal (e.g. on a mobile phone) 	xxx	xxx
área noun	área	noun	area (a particular geographic region)	En nuestra área hay poca cobertura.	In our area there is little coverage.
estilo noun	estilo	noun	style	Me gusta su estilo al escribir.	I like their writing style.
departamento noun	departamento	noun	department	Trabajo en el departamento de ventas.	I work in the sales department.
celoso adj	celoso	adj	jealous	Está muy celoso de su hermano.	He is very jealous of his brother.
ducha noun	ducha	noun	shower (device)	Cerré bien la puerta de la ducha.	I closed the shower door tightly.
euro noun	euro	noun	euro (currency)	La entrada cuesta diez euros hoy.	Admission costs ten euros today.
dominar verb	dominar	verb	to dominate; to hold sway	El equipo local dominó todo el partido.	The home team dominated the entire game.
mantequilla noun	mantequilla	noun	butter	Compré mantequilla para el pan.	I bought butter for the bread.
ladrar verb	ladrar	verb	to bark	Si el perro ladra, alguien debe estar llegando.	If the dog barks, someone must be arriving.
convencido adj	convencido	adj	convinced	Estoy convencido de que vendrá.	I'm convinced he will come.
colocar verb	colocar	verb	to place	Coloca las llaves sobre la mesa, por favor.	Place the keys on the table, please.
metal noun	metal	noun	metal	Los metales conducen bien la electricidad.	Metals conduct electricity well.
ridículo adj	ridículo	adj	ridiculous	Ese sombrero verde es ridículo.	That green hat is ridiculous.
ridículo noun	ridículo	noun	ridicule, ridiculousness, laughableness (ridiculous situation)	Cayó en el ridículo por mentir.	He fell into ridicule for lying.
pelea noun	pelea	noun	fight, brawl	Tras la pelea, se disculparon todos.	After the fight, everyone apologized.
mariposa noun	mariposa	noun	butterfly	Vi una mariposa amarilla en el jardín.	I saw a yellow butterfly in the garden.
incluir verb	incluir	verb	to include, to enclose, to contain	Siempre incluyo ejemplos claros en clase.	I always include clear examples in class.
base noun	base	noun	basis	No hay base para acusarlo.	There is no basis to accuse him.
solar adj	solar	adj	solar	El sistema solar incluye ocho planetas.	The solar system includes eight planets.
publicar verb	publicar	verb	to publish	Ella publica artículos científicos cada mes.	She publishes scientific articles every month.
deuda noun	deuda	noun	debt (an obligation to perform for another)	Pago mi deuda cada mes.	I pay my debt every month.
plástico adj	plástico	adj	plastic (constructed of plastic)	La botella plástica se rompe fácilmente.	The plastic bottle breaks easily.
plástico noun	plástico	noun	plastic (a stiff but usually slightly flexible synthetic material)	Compré platos de plástico para la fiesta.	I bought plastic plates for the party.
chaqueta noun	chaqueta	noun	jacket, piece of clothing worn on the upper body outside a shirt or blouse, often waist length to thigh length	¿Dónde dejaste tu chaqueta negra?	Where did you leave your black jacket?
plátano noun	plátano	noun	banana (fruit)	Prefiero el plátano verde para cocinar.	I prefer green plantain for cooking.
argumento noun	argumento	noun	argument	Compararon ambos argumentos antes de decidir.	They compared both arguments before deciding.
hablante adj	hablante	adj	speaking	Ofrecemos clases para adultos hablantes de chino.	We offer classes for adult Chinese speakers.
hablante noun	hablante	noun	speaker (one who speaks)	La hablante explicó la diferencia entre las palabras.	The speaker explained the difference between the words.
web noun	web	noun	webpage, website	En la web del colegio publican noticias y tareas.	On the school's website they post news and assignments.
absurdo adj	absurdo	adj	absurd, preposterous, ludicrous, ridiculous	Me parece absurdo gastar tanto dinero.	I find it absurd to spend so much money.
absurdo noun	absurdo	noun	something that is absurd or ridiculous	Ese absurdo me hizo reír mucho.	That absurdity made me laugh a lot.
vidrio noun	vidrio	noun	glass	El vaso de vidrio está limpio hoy.	The glass is clean today.
pronunciar verb	pronunciar	verb	to pronounce	Hoy pronuncio mi nombre claramente.	Today I pronounce my name clearly.
corriente adj	corriente	adj	flowing, running	Nos lavamos con agua corriente fría.	We wash with cold running water.
corriente noun	corriente	noun	current, trend, tendency	Estudiaremos la corriente eléctrica en clase.	We will study electric current in class.
armario noun	armario	noun	cupboard, storage cabinet, wardrobe	¿Puedes ordenar el armario antes de salir?	Can you organize the closet before leaving?
total adj	total	adj	total, complete, outright	Tengo confianza total en ti.	I have total confidence in you.
total adv	total	adv	basically, so, in short (used to summarise)	Total, mejor lo hablamos después.	Anyway, we'd better talk about it later.
total noun	total	noun	total	¿Cuál es el total a pagar hoy?	What is the total to pay today?
actualmente adv	actualmente	adv	at present, currently, now, nowadays	Actualmente vivo en otra ciudad.	I currently live in another city.
mediodía noun	mediodía	noun	noon, midday	A mediodía, la plaza queda completamente vacía.	At midday, the square is completely empty.
dentista noun	dentista	noun	dentist	Tengo cita con la dentista mañana por la tarde.	I have an appointment with the dentist tomorrow afternoon.
mojado adj	mojado	adj	wet	La madera mojada no se enciende fácilmente.	Wet wood doesn't ignite easily.
uña noun	uña	noun	fingernail, toenail, nail	La uña crece lentamente.	The nail grows slowly.
pluma noun	pluma	noun	feather	Encontré una pluma blanca en el jardín.	I found a white feather in the garden.
deliberar verb	deliberar	verb	to deliberate	xxx	xxx
juez noun	juez	noun	judge	Los jueces deliberaron durante horas antes de decidir.	The judges deliberated for hours before deciding.
pasajero adj	pasajero	adj	transient, passing	El dolor fue pasajero y desapareció pronto.	The pain was fleeting and disappeared soon.
pasajero noun	pasajero	noun	passenger	El pasajero sube al autobús.	The passenger boards the bus.
responsabilidad noun	responsabilidad	noun	responsibility, responsibleness	Tener responsabilidad ayuda a crecer.	Having responsibility helps you grow.
cartera noun	cartera	noun	wallet, billfold	Perdí mi cartera con dinero y tarjetas.	I lost my wallet with money and cards in it.
fe noun	fe	noun	faith	Necesitamos fe y paciencia para seguir.	We need faith and patience to keep going.
contrato noun	contrato	noun	contract, agreement	Firmé el contrato ayer con recursos humanos.	I signed the contract yesterday with Human Resources.
saludable adj	saludable	adj	healthful; healthy	Comer frutas y verduras es saludable.	Eating fruits and vegetables is healthy.
calma noun	calma	noun	calm, stillness, peacefulness	Busco un momento de calma diaria.	I'm looking for a moment of calm every day.
rayo noun	rayo	noun	beam, ray (wave of energy)	Un rayo de luz entró.	A ray of light came in.
cansar verb	cansar	verb	to tire	Ese trabajo te va a cansar.	That job is going to tire you out.
juicio noun	juicio	noun	good judgement; reason	Usa tu juicio antes de tomar decisiones importantes.	Use your judgment before making important decisions.
asesinato noun	asesinato	noun	assassination	El juicio por el asesinato del presidente comenzó esta mañana.	The trial for the president’s assassination began this morning.
breve adj	breve	adj	brief, short	Prefiero mensajes breves durante el trabajo.	I prefer brief messages during work.
ceder verb	ceder	verb	to cede, to hand over, to convey	Cederemos el control cuando terminen.	We will hand over control when they finish.
serie noun	serie	noun	series	Estoy viendo una serie muy interesante.	I am watching a very interesting series.
dormitorio noun	dormitorio	noun	dormitory	Mi amiga comparte el dormitorio con tres estudiantes.	My friend shares the dorm room with three students.
colina noun	colina	noun	hill	Subimos la colina para ver el atardecer.	We climbed the hill to see the sunset.
riqueza noun	riqueza	noun	wealth, affluence, richness	Estudiar aumenta la riqueza de conocimientos.	Studying increases the wealth of knowledge.
infancia noun	infancia	noun	childhood (period of human development from birth until puberty)	Durante mi infancia aprendí a leer.	During my childhood I learned to read.
similar adj	similar	adj	similar	Nuestros proyectos tienen objetivos similares.	Our projects have similar objectives.
ausencia noun	ausencia	noun	absence	La ausencia de ruido me sorprendió.	The absence of noise surprised me.
atraer verb	atraer	verb	to attract, to lure	Fue atraído por la música suave.	He was drawn by the soft music.
admirar verb	admirar	verb	to admire	Siempre admiramos el esfuerzo de los demás.	We always admire the effort of others.
fracaso noun	fracaso	noun	downfall, ruin, calamity, disaster	Aprendió mucho de su fracaso personal.	He learned a lot from his personal failure.
aparte adj	aparte	adj	separate, apart	Su situación es un caso aparte.	His situation is a separate case.
aparte adv	aparte	adv	separately, apart (usually followed by de)	Coloca a los niños aparte de la chimenea.	Place the children away from the fireplace.
exigir verb	exigir	verb	to demand; to require; to call for	Nos exigieron documentos para ingresar.	They required us to provide documents to enter.
superior adj	superior	adj	upper, higher	El piso superior tiene mejor vista.	The upper floor has a better view.
superior noun	superior	noun	boss	Ella es mi superior en la oficina.	She is my superior at the office.
patata noun	patata	noun	potato	Planta la patata en primavera.	Plant the potato in spring.
hallar verb	hallar	verb	to find something, deliberately or not	Espero hallar trabajo pronto en la ciudad.	I hope to find work soon in the city.
directo adj	directo	adj	direct, straightforward	Su estilo es directo y claro.	Their style is direct and clear.
nacional adj	nacional	adj	national, nationwide (of or relating to a nation)	Hay cobertura nacional para este servicio.	There is nationwide coverage for this service.
nacional noun	nacional	noun	a member of the national militia	Los nacionales defendieron el puente durante la tormenta.	The nationals defended the bridge during the storm.
callado adj	callado	adj	quiet, silent	Prefiero estar callado cuando no sé qué decir.	I prefer to keep quiet when I don't know what to say.
corte noun	corte	noun	cut (the act of cutting)	Un mal corte puede arruinar la receta.	A bad cut can ruin the recipe.
proceso noun	proceso	noun	process	El proceso de aprendizaje requiere paciencia.	The learning process requires patience.
instante noun	instante	noun	instant, moment	En un instante, todo cambió.	In an instant, everything changed.
agujero noun	agujero	noun	hole (hollow place or cavity)	Cuidado, hay un agujero profundo en el camino.	Careful, there's a deep hole in the road.
salario noun	salario	noun	wage, wages, salary	El salario mínimo subirá el próximo año.	The minimum wage will rise next year.
héroe noun	héroe	noun	hero	El héroe de la historia aprende de sus errores.	The hero of the story learns from his mistakes.
fallar verb	fallar	verb	to fail	Hemos fallado, pero seguiremos intentándolo.	We have failed, but we will keep trying.
medianoche noun	medianoche	noun	midnight	Comenzaron a trabajar a medianoche.	They started working at midnight.
amanecer verb	amanecer	verb	to dawn	¿A qué hora amanece allí?	What time does the sun rise there?
amanecer noun	amanecer	noun	dawn (the morning period of twilight)	Durante el amanecer, el aire se siente fresco.	At dawn, the air feels fresh.
bombear verb	bombear	verb	to bomb, to cheat, to pump, to steal (something)	xxx	xxx
función noun	función	noun	function	La función principal del corazón es bombear sangre.	The main function of the heart is to pump blood.
costa noun	costa	noun	coast, shore, coastline, shoreline	Caminamos por la costa al atardecer.	We walked along the coast at sunset.
dicho adj	dicho	adj	mentioned, said, aforementioned	La empresa negará su responsabilidad en dicho caso.	The company will deny its responsibility in said case.
dicho det	dicho	det	said	Revisé dicho documento y lo firmé.	I reviewed said document and signed it.
dicho noun	dicho	noun	saying, expression	Los estudiantes compartieron varios dichos en clase.	The students shared several sayings in class.
corro verb	corro	verb	first-person singular present indicative of correr	xxx	xxx
rodilla noun	rodilla	noun	knee (joint or region of the joint in the middle part of the leg between the thigh and the shank)	Me duele la rodilla derecha cuando corro.	My right knee hurts when I run.
excusa noun	excusa	noun	excuse, cop-out	No hay excusa para llegar tarde.	There is no excuse for being late.
toque noun	toque	noun	whiff	Añade un toque de limón al té.	Add a touch of lemon to the tea.
enfermera noun	enfermera	noun	female equivalent of enfermero (“nurse”)	Una enfermera amable me explicó el tratamiento.	A kind nurse explained the treatment to me.
cristiano adj	cristiano	adj	Christian (of the Christian religion)	Estudian historia cristiana en la escuela.	They study Christian history at school.
familia noun	familia	noun	family (a grouping of things possessing common characteristics), family (a nuclear family)	xxx	xxx
cristiano noun	cristiano	noun	Christian (member of the Christian religion)	Los cristianos celebran la Navidad en familia.	Christians celebrate Christmas as a family.
hambriento adj	hambriento	adj	very hungry, famished	La niña hambrienta pidió más sopa caliente.	The hungry girl asked for more hot soup.
hambriento noun	hambriento	noun	the hungry	El hambriento agradeció el plato caliente.	The hungry man was grateful for the hot meal.
extrañar verb	extrañar	verb	to miss (someone or something)	Ella extraña a su familia.	She misses her family.
reino noun	reino	noun	kingdom	El reino se extendía por las montañas.	The kingdom stretched across the mountains.
fallecer verb	fallecer	verb	to pass away, die	Muchos ancianos fallecen solos en invierno.	Many elderly people pass away alone in winter.
declarar verb	declarar	verb	to declare; to state	Declaro que todo lo dicho es cierto.	I declare that everything said is true.
adentro adv	adentro	adv	inside (especially implying a motion into)	Fuimos rápidamente adentro de la casa.	We quickly went into the house.
adentro noun	adentro	noun	one's innermost thoughts, deep down	Escuché mis adentros y decidí detenerme.	I listened to my gut and decided to stop.
adentro intj	adentro	intj	come in!	Desde la cocina ella dijo: ¡Adentro!	From the kitchen she said: 'Come in!'
original adj	original	adj	original	La receta original lleva menos azúcar.	The original recipe calls for less sugar.
cuidadoso adj	cuidadoso	adj	careful	Es muy cuidadoso con los detalles.	He is very careful with details.
fila noun	fila	noun	line, row, rank, file	La fila empieza en la esquina.	The line starts at the corner.
turista noun	turista	noun	tourist	La turista tomó fotos del museo.	The tourist took photos of the museum.
labio noun	labio	noun	lip (fleshy protrusion around the opening of the mouth)	Ella se pintó los labios rojos.	She put on red lipstick.
once num	once	num	eleven	Tengo once años y una hermana.	I am eleven years old and have a sister.
actividad noun	actividad	noun	activity (state of being active)	La actividad económica creció durante el año.	Economic activity grew during the year.
interior adj	interior	adj	inner, interior	El jardín interior del edificio recibe mucha luz natural.	The building's interior garden receives a lot of natural light.
interior noun	interior	noun	male underwear, underpants	Compré tres interiores en oferta.	I bought three pairs of underwear on sale.
castigar verb	castigar	verb	to punish, to castigate (to cause to suffer for crime or misconduct)	No deberías castigar a tu perro así.	You shouldn't punish your dog like that.
pisar verb	pisar	verb	to step; to walk; to tread	Ellos pisaron la arena caliente lentamente.	They stepped on the hot sand slowly.
adiós intj	adiós	intj	goodbye, farewell	Adiós, nos vemos mañana temprano.	Goodbye, see you early tomorrow.
adiós noun	adiós	noun	farewell; goodbye	Nos dejó un adiós sincero.	They left us a sincere farewell.
revelar verb	revelar	verb	to reveal	Ayer revelé mi plan secreto.	Yesterday I revealed my secret plan.
abandonado adj	abandonado	adj	abandoned	El perro abandonado fue adoptado rápidamente.	The abandoned dog was adopted quickly.
ventaja noun	ventaja	noun	advantage, upper hand, edge	Ellos llevan la ventaja porque entrenaron más.	They have the advantage because they trained more.
molesto adj	molesto	adj	annoyed, vexed	Estoy muy molesto por el ruido.	I am very annoyed by the noise.
ala noun	ala	noun	wing (of an aircraft)	Las alas del avión están limpias.	The airplane's wings are clean.
perseguir verb	perseguir	verb	to pursue, to chase, to go after	No dejes de perseguir aquello que te inspira.	Don't stop pursuing that which inspires you.
físico adj	físico	adj	physical	El ejercicio físico mejora la salud.	Physical exercise improves health.
físico noun	físico	noun	physique (natural constitution, or physical structure, of a person)	Cuida tu físico con constancia diaria.	Take care of your body with daily consistency.
milla noun	milla	noun	English or American mile (a unit of distance equivalent to about 1.6 km)	Corrí una milla en el parque esta mañana.	I ran a mile in the park this morning.
arrestar verb	arrestar	verb	to arrest	Ojalá no arresten a personas inocentes.	I hope they don't arrest innocent people.
oficial adj	oficial	adj	official	La traducción oficial estará disponible mañana temprano.	The official translation will be available early tomorrow.
oficial noun	oficial	noun	officer, official	El oficial pidió calma a la multitud.	The officer asked the crowd for calm.
relajar verb	relajar	verb	to relax, to loosen	Intento relajar mi mente antes de estudiar.	I try to relax my mind before studying.
célula noun	célula	noun	cell (the basic unit of a living organism)	Una célula necesita energía para realizar sus funciones.	A cell needs energy to perform its functions.
internet noun	internet	noun	internet	Busco recetas en internet cada día.	I search for recipes online every day.
querido adj	querido	adj	dear (also used in letter introductions, etc.)	Mis queridos abuelos vienen a cenar.	My dear grandparents are coming for dinner.
querido noun	querido	noun	sweetheart	Mi querido me llamó para cenar juntos.	My dear called me to have dinner together.
diverso adj	diverso	adj	diverse	Buscamos opiniones diversas antes de decidir.	We seek diverse opinions before deciding.
rana noun	rana	noun	frog	Observé una rana pequeña en el jardín.	I observed a small frog in the garden.
soplar verb	soplar	verb	to blow	El viento sopla fuerte en otoño.	The wind blows hard in autumn.
cálido adj	cálido	adj	warm	Usa ropa cálida durante el invierno.	Wear warm clothes during the winter.
apretar verb	apretar	verb	to squeeze	Ella apretó mi mano con fuerza.	She squeezed my hand tightly.
cardenal noun	cardenal	noun	bruise, cardinal, cardinal (bird), cardinalfish	xxx	xxx
consistorio noun	consistorio	noun	consistory, town hall	xxx	xxx
romano adj	romano	adj	of Rome as the seat of power of the popes, heads of the Roman Catholic Church	Los cardenales romanos se reunieron en consistorio para deliberar.	The Roman cardinals met in consistory to deliberate.
romano noun	romano	noun	Roman (native or inhabitant of the city of Rome, capital of Italy) (usually male)	Conocimos a un romano en el museo.	We met a Roman at the museum.
contribuir verb	contribuir	verb	to contribute	Si contribuimos juntos, lograremos grandes resultados.	If we contribute together, we will achieve great results.
músico noun	músico	noun	musician	El músico practica a diario en casa.	The musician practices at home every day.
simpático adj	simpático	adj	nice, pleasant, likable	Mi abuela es simpática y paciente.	My grandmother is friendly and patient.
cazar verb	cazar	verb	to hunt	Si cazaras, lo harías con responsabilidad.	If you hunted, you would do it responsibly.
granja noun	granja	noun	farm, grange	Compré huevos frescos de la granja.	I bought fresh eggs from the farm.
liberar verb	liberar	verb	to liberate, to release, to free, to set free, to free up	El gato logró liberarse de la cuerda.	The cat managed to free itself from the rope.
gris adj	gris	adj	grey / gray	El cielo está gris hoy.	The sky is gray today.
gris noun	gris	noun	grey / gray	Ese artista domina los grises.	That artist masters gray tones.
afeitar verb	afeitar	verb	to shave (to remove hair with a razor or clippers)	No me quiero afeitar hoy.	I don't want to shave today.
perfectamente adv	perfectamente	adv	perfectly	El plan funcionó perfectamente, sin ningún problema.	The plan worked perfectly, without any problems.
adivinar verb	adivinar	verb	to guess	¿Puedes adivinar quién llamó anoche?	Can you guess who called last night?
cabra noun	cabra	noun	female goat	Las cabras suben montañas con facilidad.	Goats climb mountains with ease.
suicidarse verb	suicidarse	verb	infinitive of suicidar combined with se	Si estás pensando en suicidarte, habla con alguien.	If you're thinking about killing yourself, talk to someone.
experto adj	experto	adj	expert	Somos expertos en resolver problemas complejos.	We are experts at solving complex problems.
experto noun	experto	noun	expert	El experto explicó el problema claramente.	The expert explained the problem clearly.
confundir verb	confundir	verb	to confuse, to throw off, to baffle, to perplex	Es fácil confundir esos dos sonidos.	It's easy to confuse those two sounds.
genio noun	genio	noun	genius	Un genio no teme aprender de sus errores.	A genius is not afraid to learn from their mistakes.
traicionar verb	traicionar	verb	to betray, turn on	Jamás traicionaré a mi equipo.	I will never betray my team.
roto adj	roto	adj	broken	Los juguetes están rotos y viejos.	The toys are broken and old.
sastre noun	sastre	noun	tailor (person who makes, repairs, or alters clothes professionally)	xxx	xxx
roto noun	roto	noun	a broken thing or person	El sastre arregló los rotos del pantalón viejo.	The tailor mended the rips in the old pants.
misterio noun	misterio	noun	mystery, mysteriousness	Los niños leían sobre antiguos misterios.	The children were reading about ancient mysteries.
julio noun	julio	noun	July	En julio, muchas familias viajan.	In July, many families travel.
ama noun	ama	noun	lady of the house	Las amas de casa comparten recetas saludables.	Housewives share healthy recipes.
pistola noun	pistola	noun	pistol, handgun	El policía guardó su pistola con cuidado.	The police officer put away their pistol carefully.
colón noun	colón	noun	colón (currency)	Aceptan pagos en colones y dólares.	They accept payments in colones and dollars.
modelo noun	modelo	noun	model (a successful example to be copied)	La cooperativa funciona como modelo para otras comunidades.	The cooperative serves as a model for other communities.
lucir verb	lucir	verb	to shine	La luna luce brillante esta noche.	The moon looks bright tonight.
instituto noun	instituto	noun	institute	El instituto ofrece cursos de verano.	The institute offers summer courses.
espera noun	espera	noun	wait	Durante la espera, leí una revista.	During the wait, I read a magazine.
abrazar verb	abrazar	verb	to hug, to embrace (a person, an animal)	Quiero abrazar a mi mejor amigo.	I want to hug my best friend.
insistir verb	insistir	verb	to insist	Insistimos en revisar los detalles.	We insist on reviewing the details.
construcción noun	construcción	noun	construction	Visitaron construcciones antiguas durante el viaje.	They visited old buildings during the trip.
poesía noun	poesía	noun	poetry	Me gusta leer poesía cada noche.	I like to read poetry every night.
hundir verb	hundir	verb	to sink, engulf	La crisis podría hundir a la empresa.	The crisis could sink the company.
desnudo adj	desnudo	adj	naked, nude, undressed	Entraron desnudos porque olvidaron las toallas.	They entered naked because they forgot the towels.
desarrollar verb	desarrollar	verb	to develop	Estamos desarrollando un plan de estudio.	We are developing a study plan.
criticar verb	criticar	verb	to criticize	No critiques todo; ofrece soluciones también.	Don't criticize everything; offer solutions too.
seguramente adv	seguramente	adv	surely, certainly	Seguramente encontrarán una solución pronto.	They will surely find a solution soon.
investigar verb	investigar	verb	to investigate, to research	Estoy investigando cómo funciona este motor.	I am investigating how this engine works.
escena noun	escena	noun	scene	Recuerdo una escena graciosa de ayer.	I remember a funny scene from yesterday.
temblar verb	temblar	verb	to tremble, to quiver, to quake, to shudder, to cringe, to quail	Mis manos tiemblan cuando tengo frío.	My hands tremble when I'm cold.
capitán noun	capitán	noun	captain (leader)	Los capitanes deben dar ejemplo siempre.	Captains must always set an example.
hueso noun	hueso	noun	bone	Me rompí un hueso del brazo jugando.	I broke a bone in my arm while playing.
marrón adj	marrón	adj	brown (colour)	La mesa es de color marrón.	The table is brown.
marrón noun	marrón	noun	brown (colour)	El marrón es un color cálido.	Brown is a warm color.
término noun	término	noun	end, terminus (the terminal point of something in space or time)	Puso término a la discusión con una disculpa.	They put an end to the discussion with an apology.
presencia noun	presencia	noun	presence	Notamos su presencia en la reunión.	We noticed their presence at the meeting.
colección noun	colección	noun	collection	Su colección de libros creció rápidamente.	Their book collection grew rapidly.
cruel adj	cruel	adj	mean	No seas cruel con tus amigos.	Don't be cruel to your friends.
atractivo adj	atractivo	adj	attractive, appealing	Ese vestido rojo se ve muy atractivo.	That red dress looks very attractive.
atractivo noun	atractivo	noun	appeal, attractiveness, attraction	El atractivo de la ciudad crece cada verano.	The city's appeal grows every summer.
televisor noun	televisor	noun	television set, TV set, television receiver, television, (colloquial) telly (a device for receiving television signals and displaying them in visual form)	Ayer compramos un televisor nuevo para la sala.	Yesterday we bought a new television for the living room.
ácido adj	ácido	adj	sharp, tart	La naranja estaba poco ácida, casi dulce.	The orange was only slightly acidic, almost sweet.
ácido noun	ácido	noun	acid	El profesor explicó qué es un ácido.	The professor explained what an acid is.
vano adj	vano	adj	vain (pointless, futile)	Tus disculpas fueron vanas esta vez.	Your apologies were in vain this time.
vano noun	vano	noun	span (of a bridge, door)	El puente tiene un vano principal muy largo.	The bridge has a very long main span.
clásico adj	clásico	adj	classic	Prefiero la música clásica para concentrarme.	I prefer classical music to concentrate.
clásico noun	clásico	noun	derby (specifically in association football and one between two teams who are not from the same city or region)	Mañana veremos un clásico histórico entre equipos que no son de la misma ciudad.	Tomorrow we will see a historic classic between teams that are not from the same city.
bote noun	bote	noun	boat, dinghy	Nos subimos al bote para cruzar el río.	We got into the boat to cross the river.
punta noun	punta	noun	tip, point, end	No acerques la punta del cuchillo.	Don't bring the tip of the knife closer.
adelantar verb	adelantar	verb	to bring forward, advance, to move forward (in space or time)	Mañana adelantaremos el reloj una hora.	Tomorrow we will set the clock forward one hour.
teclado noun	teclado	noun	keyboard (of a typewriter, piano, computer, etc.)	El teclado de mi computadora está sucio.	My computer keyboard is dirty.
explotar verb	explotar	verb	to exploit	Buscan explotar el mercado internacional.	They seek to exploit the international market.
impulso noun	impulso	noun	drive, urge, impulse, pulse	xxx	xxx
asesino adj	asesino	adj	murderous, homicidal (intending, or likely to commit murder)	Mostraba impulsos asesinos durante las discusiones familiares.	They were showing murderous impulses during family arguments.
asesino noun	asesino	noun	murderer, killer (person who commits murder)	El asesino confesó su terrible crimen.	The killer confessed their terrible crime.
sabiduría noun	sabiduría	noun	wisdom	Ella buscó sabiduría en los libros.	She sought wisdom in books.
canto noun	canto	noun	singing	Tomé clases de canto para mejorar.	I took singing lessons to improve.
ministro noun	ministro	noun	minister	El ministro respondió a preguntas de periodistas.	The minister answered reporters' questions.
afirmar verb	afirmar	verb	to state, assert	Ella siempre afirma la verdad con calma.	She always states the truth calmly.
seguido adv	seguido	adv	often	Me llama seguido para pedir consejo.	He often calls me to ask for advice.
seguido adj	seguido	adj	consecutive	Ganamos tres partidos seguidos este mes.	We won three games in a row this month.
aun adv	aun	adv	even (implying an extreme example in the case mentioned)	Aun los expertos cometen errores.	Even experts make mistakes.
parecido adj	parecido	adj	similar	Tenemos acentos parecidos cuando hablamos rápido.	We have similar accents when we speak fast.
parecido noun	parecido	noun	resemblance	Observamos varios parecidos en sus costumbres.	We observed several similarities in their customs.
sobrino noun	sobrino	noun	nephew	Mi sobrino tiene ocho años y estudia.	My nephew is eight years old and he studies.
gemelo adj	gemelo	adj	twin	Mi hermano gemelo vive conmigo.	My twin brother lives with me.
gemelo noun	gemelo	noun	twin, especially an identical twin	Mi gemelo vive en Madrid.	My twin lives in Madrid.
directamente adv	directamente	adv	directly, firsthand	Habla directamente con el profesor.	He speaks directly with the professor.
sello noun	sello	noun	seal, sigil	El contrato llevaba el sello de la universidad.	The contract bore the university's seal.
rubio adj	rubio	adj	blond	Ella tiene el pelo rubio natural.	She has natural blonde hair.
rubio noun	rubio	noun	a blond (or blonde) person	El rubio llegó tarde a clase.	The blond man arrived late to class.
crédito noun	crédito	noun	credit	Perdió créditos por entregar tarde.	He lost credits for submitting late.
máximo adj	máximo	adj	maximum	Hoy la temperatura máxima alcanzará los treinta grados.	Today the maximum temperature will reach thirty degrees.
máximo noun	máximo	noun	maximum	El máximo de la función es tres.	The maximum of the function is three.
desconocido adj	desconocido	adj	unknown, undisclosed, unbeknownst	Las consecuencias desconocidas del cambio preocupan.	The unknown consequences of the change are worrying.
desconocido noun	desconocido	noun	unknown	Un desconocido llamó a mi puerta.	A stranger knocked on my door.
roca noun	roca	noun	rock	La roca es dura y pesada.	The rock is hard and heavy.
sensación noun	sensación	noun	sensation	Busco la sensación de paz interior.	I seek the feeling of inner peace.
curiosidad noun	curiosidad	noun	curiosity	Por curiosidad, hice muchas preguntas.	Out of curiosity, I asked many questions.
etiqueta noun	etiqueta	noun	label, tag	Pegué una etiqueta con mi nombre en la caja.	I stuck a label with my name on the box.
arrancar verb	arrancar	verb	to pull out	Ella arrancaba las etiquetas de la ropa nueva.	She used to tear the tags off new clothes.
bebido adj	bebido	adj	drunk	Llegó bastante bebido a la fiesta.	He arrived quite drunk to the party.
patio noun	patio	noun	yard, patio	Tomamos café y conversamos en el patio.	We had coffee and talked on the patio.
tragar verb	tragar	verb	to swallow (to cause to pass from the mouth into the stomach)	Me cuesta tragar cuando estoy resfriado.	It's hard for me to swallow when I have a cold.
informar verb	informar	verb	to inform	El director informó a todos hoy.	The director informed everyone today.
representar verb	representar	verb	to represent	Estábamos representando escenas históricas para el público.	We were reenacting historical scenes for the public.
vago adj	vago	adj	vague	Su explicación fue demasiado vaga.	Their explanation was too vague.
vago noun	vago	noun	wanderer	El vago pedía direcciones hacia la próxima estación.	The bum was asking for directions to the next station.
barba noun	barba	noun	beard	Mi abuelo tiene una barba muy larga.	My grandfather has a very long beard.
prender verb	prender	verb	to catch, to arrest	Ayer prendieron a los sospechosos.	Yesterday they arrested the suspects.
sueldo noun	sueldo	noun	salary	Mi sueldo no alcanza para todo.	My salary isn't enough for everything.
mancha noun	mancha	noun	spot; stain; blemish	Las manchas de vino son difíciles de quitar.	Wine stains are hard to remove.
automóvil noun	automóvil	noun	automobile	Ella aprendió a conducir un automóvil.	She learned to drive a car.
autoridad noun	autoridad	noun	authority (persons in command)	Las autoridades locales investigan el caso.	The local authorities are investigating the case.
alquilar verb	alquilar	verb	to rent	Mañana alquilaremos un coche pequeño.	Tomorrow we will rent a small car.
ilegal adj	ilegal	adj	illegal, unlawful	Construir sin permisos adecuados es ilegal.	Building without proper permits is illegal.
cable noun	cable	noun	cable, cord	Compré un cable más largo.	I bought a longer cable.
literatura noun	literatura	noun	literature	Estudio literatura española en la universidad.	I study Spanish literature at the university.
apoyo noun	apoyo	noun	support	Necesitamos más apoyo financiero hoy.	We need more financial support today.
humo noun	humo	noun	smoke	El humo salía de la chimenea.	The smoke was coming out of the chimney.
baja noun	baja	noun	casualty, loss	En el accidente hubo varias bajas.	There were several casualties in the accident.
auténtico adj	auténtico	adj	authentic, real, true (conforming to reality and therefore worthy of trust)	Ella siempre muestra una sonrisa auténtica.	She always shows a genuine smile.
tesoro noun	tesoro	noun	treasure, trove, treasure trove	Protegieron el tesoro con trampas y guardias.	They protected the treasure with traps and guards.
ambiente noun	ambiente	noun	atmosphere	El concierto creó un ambiente emocionante.	The concert created an exciting atmosphere.
alegre adj	alegre	adj	joyful, cheerful	Me siento alegre cuando escucho música.	I feel happy when I listen to music.
vetar verb	vetar	verb	to veto	Si aprueban eso, lo vetaremos.	If they approve that, we will veto it.
europeo adj	europeo	adj	European	Estudiamos la historia europea en clase hoy.	We studied European history in class today.
europeo noun	europeo	noun	European	Conocí a varios europeos en el museo.	I met several Europeans at the museum.
tortuga noun	tortuga	noun	turtle	Las tortugas pueden vivir muchos años.	Turtles can live many years.
empeorar verb	empeorar	verb	to worsen, to make worse, to exacerbate	El tráfico empeoró por el accidente.	The traffic got worse because of the accident.
generación noun	generación	noun	generation	La generación digital creció con internet.	The digital generation grew up with the internet.
calcetín noun	calcetín	noun	sock	Perdí uno de mis calcetines favoritos.	I lost one of my favorite socks.
comercial adj	comercial	adj	commercial	En la zona comercial abren muy temprano.	In the shopping district they open very early.
comercial noun	comercial	noun	commercial, advert	Vimos un comercial de televisión divertido anoche.	We saw a funny TV commercial last night.
cobrar verb	cobrar	verb	to charge (money, etc.)	¿Cuánto piensas cobrar por tu trabajo?	How much do you plan to charge for your work?
locura noun	locura	noun	madness, craziness	Esa decisión fue una locura total.	That decision was total madness.
aplicar verb	aplicar	verb	to use, to apply	Ayer apliqué pintura nueva en la pared.	Yesterday I applied new paint to the wall.
incorrecto adj	incorrecto	adj	wrong, incorrect	Tu respuesta es incorrecta en matemáticas.	Your answer is incorrect in math.
tecnología noun	tecnología	noun	technology	La tecnología médica salva muchas vidas.	Medical technology saves many lives.
disponer verb	disponer	verb	to prepare, arrange	Dispongo la mesa antes de cenar.	I set the table before dinner.
apellido noun	apellido	noun	surname, last name	Su apellido está mal escrito.	Their last name is misspelled.
uniforme adj	uniforme	adj	uniform, even	Los resultados fueron uniformes entre los grupos.	The results were uniform across the groups.
uniforme noun	uniforme	noun	uniform, dress uniform	Perdí mi uniforme y necesito otro.	I lost my uniform and I need another.
pradera noun	pradera	noun	grassland, prairie, pasture	xxx	xxx
zorro noun	zorro	noun	fox (carnivore)	El zorro rojo vive en bosques y praderas.	The red fox lives in forests and prairies.
zorro adj	zorro	adj	clever, crafty, sly	Mi jefe es zorro en cada reunión difícil.	My boss is cunning in every difficult meeting.
coleccionar verb	coleccionar	verb	to collect (to accumulate a number of similar or related objects, particularly for a hobby or recreation)	Mi hermana colecciona sellos de países.	My sister collects stamps from countries.
gota noun	gota	noun	a drop or small amount of	No quedaba ni una gota de agua.	There wasn't a single drop of water left.
confirmar verb	confirmar	verb	to confirm	¿Puedes confirmar si llega hoy?	Can you confirm whether it arrives today?
recientemente adv	recientemente	adv	recently	He estado muy ocupado recientemente.	I have been very busy recently.
cigarrillo noun	cigarrillo	noun	cigarette	En este restaurante no se permiten cigarrillos.	Cigarettes are not allowed in this restaurant.
mezclar verb	mezclar	verb	to mix	No mezcles estas cuentas; están ordenadas por fecha.	Don't mix these bills; they are sorted by date.
infierno noun	infierno	noun	hell	Este tráfico es un infierno diario.	This traffic is a daily hell.
lamentar verb	lamentar	verb	to lament, to regret	Siempre lamentamos las oportunidades perdidas.	We always regret missed opportunities.
generalmente adv	generalmente	adv	generally, normally	Generalmente estudio por las tardes.	I generally study in the afternoons.
estupidez noun	estupidez	noun	stupidity (the property of being stupid)	Esa estupidez nos costó mucho dinero.	That stupidity cost us a lot of money.
mayo noun	mayo	noun	May	Mi cumpleaños es en mayo.	My birthday is in May.
esencial adj	esencial	adj	essential	Es esencial dormir bien cada noche.	It is essential to sleep well every night.
hierro noun	hierro	noun	iron (chemical element)	El hierro es un metal esencial para la sangre.	Iron is an essential metal for blood.
cero num	cero	num	zero	Tenemos cero manzanas en casa.	We have zero apples at home.
cero noun	cero	noun	zero	Cero es menor que uno.	Zero is less than one.
evento noun	evento	noun	event	El evento comenzó a tiempo ayer.	The event started on time yesterday.
altavoz noun	altavoz	noun	loudspeaker, speaker (an electromechanical transducer that converts an electrical signal into audible sound), loudspeaker, speaker enclosure, speaker cabinet (an encasing containing one or more loudspeaker devices and usually other electrical equipment such as a driver), speakerphone, speaker (a loudspeaker on a telephone that broadcasts the sound, to use handsfree)   	xxx	xxx
portátil adj	portátil	adj	portable	Llevo un altavoz portátil a la playa.	I take a portable speaker to the beach.
portátil noun	portátil	noun	notebook, laptop (computer)	Compré un portátil usado para la universidad.	I bought a used laptop for university.
batería noun	batería	noun	large and rechargeable battery	Compré una batería nueva para el portátil de la oficina.	I bought a new battery for the office laptop.
atado adj	atado	adj	biased, confused, tied, tied up, tied down, timid	xxx	xxx
cadena noun	cadena	noun	chain (series of interconnected rings or links usually made of metal)	El perro estaba atado con una cadena de metal.	The dog was tied with a metal chain.
corregir verb	corregir	verb	to correct	¿Puedes corregir este texto conmigo?	Can you correct this text with me?
incómodo adj	incómodo	adj	uncomfortable	Me siento incómodo hablando de dinero.	I feel uncomfortable talking about money.
pila noun	pila	noun	small battery	Necesito una pila nueva para el reloj.	I need a new battery for the watch.
democracia noun	democracia	noun	democracy (rule by the people)	La democracia requiere elecciones libres y justas.	Democracy requires free and fair elections.
componer verb	componer	verb	to compose (write music)	Cada verano compongo canciones para niños.	Every summer I compose songs for children.
comprobar verb	comprobar	verb	to check, to check on, to check out, to see, to check to see (examine)	Quiero comprobar si hay errores.	I want to check if there are any mistakes.
cocinero noun	cocinero	noun	cook	El cocinero prepara la cena cada noche.	The cook prepares dinner every night.
gobernar verb	gobernar	verb	to govern	Ellos gobernarán mejor si escuchan.	They will govern better if they listen.
ingenuo adj	ingenuo	adj	naive, ingenuous, candid, innocent	Parecen ingenuas, pero son listas.	They seem naive, but they are smart.
ingenuo noun	ingenuo	noun	naif	El ingenuo creyó todas las promesas.	The naive one believed all the promises.
inclinar verb	inclinar	verb	to tilt	Si inclinas el libro, verás mejor.	If you tilt the book, you'll see better.
junio noun	junio	noun	June	Mi cumpleaños es en junio.	My birthday is in June.
defecto noun	defecto	noun	defect, fault, deficiency	Todos tenemos defectos que podemos mejorar.	We all have flaws that we can improve.
verbo noun	verbo	noun	verb	El verbo principal indica la acción.	The main verb indicates the action.
gatito noun	gatito	noun	kitten (young cat)	Los gatitos juegan con una pelota.	The kittens play with a ball.
suspender verb	suspender	verb	to suspend	Decidieron suspender la reunión por la lluvia.	They decided to cancel the meeting because of the rain.
pedazo noun	pedazo	noun	piece, chunk, hunk, bit, bite (a part of a larger whole)	Ella mordió un pedazo de manzana.	She bit a piece of apple.
bota noun	bota	noun	boot	Lleva botas altas en invierno.	She wears tall boots in winter.
agradecido adj	agradecido	adj	grateful, thankful, appreciative, obliged, indebted	Estoy muy agradecido por tu ayuda.	I am very grateful for your help.
marcha noun	marcha	noun	march	La marcha por la paz reunió a miles de personas.	The march for peace brought together thousands of people.
milagro noun	milagro	noun	miracle	Celebramos los pequeños milagros de cada día.	We celebrate the small miracles of each day.
instrumento noun	instrumento	noun	instrument	Necesito un instrumento adecuado para medir la temperatura.	I need a suitable instrument to measure the temperature.
salón noun	salón	noun	living room; sitting room; parlor; drawing room	Vamos al salón a ver la televisión.	Let's go to the living room to watch television.
presión noun	presión	noun	pressure	Hoy he sentido mucha presión en el trabajo.	Today I have felt a lot of pressure at work.
ciertamente adv	ciertamente	adv	certainly	Ciertamente tienes razón en eso.	You are certainly right about that.
sordo adj	sordo	adj	deaf	El maestro aprendió frases útiles para los alumnos sordos.	The teacher learned useful phrases for deaf students.
sordo noun	sordo	noun	deaf person	Invitamos al sordo a compartir su experiencia.	We invited the deaf person to share their experience.
partida noun	partida	noun	departure	Confirmaron la hora de partida del vuelo.	They confirmed the departure time of the flight.
egipcio adj	egipcio	adj	Egyptian	El arte egipcio fascina a mucha gente.	Egyptian art fascinates many people.
egipcio noun	egipcio	noun	Egyptian (language)	Estudiamos el egipcio clásico en la universidad.	We study Classical Egyptian at the university.
apariencia noun	apariencia	noun	appearance (personal presence)	Las apariencias pueden engañar a cualquiera.	Appearances can deceive anyone.
dividir verb	dividir	verb	to divide	Ella divide la cuenta entre todos.	She splits the bill among everyone.
virtud noun	virtud	noun	virtue	Su mayor virtud es escuchar con atención.	Their greatest virtue is listening attentively.
mascota noun	mascota	noun	pet	Mi mascota duerme en su cama.	My pet sleeps in its bed.
coincidir verb	coincidir	verb	to coincide	Coincido contigo en ese punto.	I agree with you on that point.
producción noun	producción	noun	production	Mejoramos la producción con nuevas máquinas.	We improved production with new machines.
código noun	código	noun	code	Necesito el código de acceso correcto.	I need the correct access code.
cortina noun	cortina	noun	curtain	Cerré la cortina para dormir mejor.	I closed the curtain to sleep better.
práctica noun	práctica	noun	practice	La práctica diaria mejora tus habilidades.	Daily practice improves your skills.
rata adj	rata	adj	stingy, miserly, tight-fisted	Eres muy rata con el dinero.	You're very stingy with money.
eterno adj	eterno	adj	eternal	Sus amistades eternas nos inspiran mucho.	Their lifelong friendships inspire us a lot.
infinito adj	infinito	adj	infinite	Tienes infinitas opciones para resolver este problema.	You have infinite options to solve this problem.
infinito noun	infinito	noun	infinity	El infinito me fascina desde niño.	Infinity has fascinated me since I was a child.
ingreso noun	ingreso	noun	entrance, ingress	Necesitas un permiso de ingreso para la biblioteca.	You need an entry permit for the library.
masa noun	masa	noun	dough	La masa madre alimenta nuestro pan.	Sourdough starter leavens our bread.
mejilla noun	mejilla	noun	cheek	Sus mejillas se pusieron rojas de vergüenza.	Their cheeks turned red with embarrassment.
gramática noun	gramática	noun	grammar (rules for speaking and writing a language)	La gramática del español tiene reglas claras.	Spanish grammar has clear rules.
camiseta noun	camiseta	noun	T-shirt	Sus camisetas favoritas están limpias ahora.	Their favorite T-shirts are clean now.
bromear verb	bromear	verb	to joke, to kid (to do or say something for amusement)	Estaban bromeando mientras esperaban el autobús.	They were joking while they waited for the bus.
sugerir verb	sugerir	verb	to suggest	¿Podrías sugerir otra opción mejor?	Could you suggest another, better option?
capturar verb	capturar	verb	to catch, trap, capture	Me capturaron cuando intentaba escapar.	They captured me when I was trying to escape.
mosquito noun	mosquito	noun	gnat	Los mosquitos salen más al atardecer.	Mosquitoes come out more at dusk.
símbolo noun	símbolo	noun	symbol	Aprendimos los símbolos matemáticos en clase.	We learned the mathematical symbols in class.
habitante adj	habitante	adj	inhabiting; said of something that inhabits	Las aves habitantes del bosque cantan.	The forest-dwelling birds sing.
habitante noun	habitante	noun	inhabitant	Ningún habitante conocía la noticia.	No resident knew about the news.
militar adj	militar	adj	military	Ella compró un uniforme militar.	She bought a military uniform.
militar noun	militar	noun	soldier	El militar saludó a sus superiores.	The service member saluted his superiors.
militar verb	militar	verb	to participate actively in a political organization, especially in the military	Milité cinco años en el Ejército Nacional.	I served five years in the National Army.
típico adj	típico	adj	typical (characteristically representing something by form, group, idea or type)	Probamos dulces típicos en el mercado local.	We tried traditional sweets at the local market.
típico noun	típico	noun	a dance and music style from Panama	Aprendí a bailar el típico cuando era niño.	I learned to dance the típico when I was a child.
ideal adj	ideal	adj	ideal	Encontramos el regalo ideal para mamá.	We found the ideal gift for Mom.
ideal noun	ideal	noun	ideal	Busco un ideal a seguir.	I'm looking for an ideal to follow.
ah intj	ah	intj	ah (expression of relief, realization, awe)	Ah, ya entiendo lo que decías.	Ah, now I understand what you were saying.
cobarde adj	cobarde	adj	cowardly, craven, gutless, spineless, dastardly	Preferimos respuestas valientes, no cobardes.	We prefer brave answers, not cowardly ones.
cobarde noun	cobarde	noun	coward, chicken, wimp, poltroon	Un cobarde siempre inventa excusas.	A coward always makes up excuses.
encuentro noun	encuentro	noun	encounter, meeting	El encuentro de hoy terminó antes del almuerzo.	Today's meeting ended before lunch.
colega noun	colega	noun	colleague	Compartí el almuerzo con dos colegas simpáticos.	I shared lunch with two nice colleagues.
norma noun	norma	noun	rule, norm, standard, touchstone	Debes respetar las normas de seguridad.	You must follow the safety regulations.
paloma noun	paloma	noun	dove, pigeon	Observamos una paloma bebiendo agua en la fuente.	We observed a pigeon drinking water at the fountain.
obvio adj	obvio	adj	obvious	Es obvio que necesitas descansar.	It's obvious that you need to rest.
arrepentirse verb	arrepentirse	verb	to regret	Nos arrepentimos de no haberte llamado.	We regret not calling you.
versión noun	versión	noun	version	Necesito una versión en español.	I need a version in Spanish.
desarrollo noun	desarrollo	noun	development	Planeamos el desarrollo de la comunidad.	We planned the community's development.
grano noun	grano	noun	grain (a single similar particle of various substances)	Colocó un grano de sal sobre la mesa.	He placed a grain of salt on the table.
ausente adj	ausente	adj	absent	Estaba tan ausente que no respondió.	He was so absent-minded that he didn't respond.
carga noun	carga	noun	load	El puente soporta una carga máxima.	The bridge supports a maximum load.
demonio noun	demonio	noun	demon, devil	Los demonios asustaron a los niños.	The demons scared the children.
aventura noun	aventura	noun	adventure	Compartieron muchas aventuras de la infancia.	They shared many childhood adventures.
guía noun	guía	noun	guide	El guía local respondió a nuestras dudas.	The local guide answered our questions.
niebla noun	niebla	noun	fog (a thick cloud that forms near the ground)	Había tanta niebla que no veíamos nada.	There was so much fog that we couldn't see anything.
materia noun	materia	noun	matter (the basic structural component of the universe)	La materia tiene masa y ocupa espacio.	Matter has mass and occupies space.
experimento noun	experimento	noun	experiment	En clase, hicimos un experimento sencillo.	In class, we did a simple experiment.
criminal adj	criminal	adj	criminal	El comportamiento criminal suele tener consecuencias.	Criminal behavior usually has consequences.
criminal noun	criminal	noun	criminal	Esos criminales actuaban en varios países.	Those criminals were operating in several countries.
ligero adj	ligero	adj	light, not heavy	Usa zapatos ligeros para caminar mucho.	Wear lightweight shoes for lots of walking.
estacionar verb	estacionar	verb	to park (to bring a vehicle to a halt in a specified place)	Voy a estacionar el coche aquí.	I'm going to park the car here.
aburrir verb	aburrir	verb	to bore; to tire	Las reuniones largas me aburren muchísimo.	Long meetings really bore me.
siesta noun	siesta	noun	siesta (a nap, especially an afternoon one taken during the hottest part of the day in some cultures)	En algunos países, toman la siesta diaria.	In some countries, they take a daily nap.
eh intj	eh	intj	hey! (used to call, draw attention, warn or reprehend)	Eh, escucha, necesito hablar contigo.	Hey, listen, I need to talk to you.
establecer verb	establecer	verb	to establish	Debes establecer límites saludables con amigos.	You should set healthy boundaries with friends.
imaginación noun	imaginación	noun	imagination	La ciencia también necesita imaginación para avanzar.	Science also needs imagination to advance.
inesperado adj	inesperado	adj	unexpected	Encontraron soluciones inesperadas durante la crisis.	They found unexpected solutions during the crisis.
asustado adj	asustado	adj	scared	Estoy asustado porque escuché ruidos.	I am scared because I heard noises.
cosecha noun	cosecha	noun	harvest, crop	Esa región perdió la cosecha por la sequía.	That region lost the harvest due to the drought.
billetera noun	billetera	noun	wallet	Perdí mi billetera en el supermercado.	I lost my wallet at the supermarket.
copa noun	copa	noun	stemmed glass, glass, goblet or its content	Tomó una copa de vino.	He had a glass of wine.
ritmo noun	ritmo	noun	rhythm	No puedo seguir tu ritmo.	I can't keep up with your pace.
aliento noun	aliento	noun	breath	Tomé aliento antes de hablar.	I took a breath before speaking.
conservar verb	conservar	verb	to conserve	Debemos conservar el agua en casa.	We must conserve water at home.
década noun	década	noun	decade	Durante la década pasada, mejoraron los servicios públicos.	During the past decade, public services improved.
correctamente adv	correctamente	adv	correctly	Ella pronunció correctamente todas las palabras.	She pronounced all the words correctly.
martes noun	martes	noun	Tuesday (the third day of the week in many religious traditions, and the second day of the week in systems that use the ISO 8601 norm; it follows Monday and precedes Wednesday)	El martes tenemos examen de matemáticas.	On Tuesday we have a math exam.
aumento noun	aumento	noun	increase	El aumento de los precios preocupa a muchas familias.	The rise in prices worries many families.
valioso adj	valioso	adj	valuable	Encontramos recursos valiosos durante la investigación.	We found valuable resources during the research.
fama noun	fama	noun	fame	Buscó la fama, pero halló responsabilidades.	He sought fame, but found responsibilities.
rezar verb	rezar	verb	to pray, especially to repeat or recite (rather than sing) a memorized prayer such as the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary, etc.	Vamos a rezar por los enfermos.	We are going to pray for the sick.
pasatiempo noun	pasatiempo	noun	pastime	Leer novelas es mi pasatiempo favorito.	Reading novels is my favorite hobby.
título noun	título	noun	title (honorary title)	Recibió un título de caballero por su servicio.	He received a knighthood for his service.
ola noun	ola	noun	wave (on the surface of a liquid)	Nadamos detrás de una gran ola.	We swam behind a big wave.
testigo noun	testigo	noun	witness (someone who sees something)	El testigo vio todo claramente.	The witness saw everything clearly.
condenar verb	condenar	verb	to condemn	Condenamos la violencia en cualquier forma.	We condemn violence in any form.
invitación noun	invitación	noun	invitation	Enviaré la invitación por correo electrónico.	I will send the invitation by email.
amenazar verb	amenazar	verb	to threaten	Nunca amenazaría a nadie por dinero.	I would never threaten anyone for money.
borde noun	borde	noun	edge, border, brink, verge, rim, margin	El pastel tiene azúcar en los bordes.	The cake has sugar on the edges.
deshacer verb	deshacer	verb	to undo, to unmake	Siempre intento deshacer los nudos rápidamente.	I always try to undo the knots quickly.
enterrar verb	enterrar	verb	to bury; to entomb	Ojalá enterremos los malos hábitos.	I hope we bury the bad habits.
poquito adj	poquito	adj	diminutive of poco, tiny, very small	Tengo poquito dinero este mes.	I have very little money this month.
poquito adv	poquito	adv	diminutive of poco (“very little, not much”)	Hablo poquito cuando estoy nervioso.	I speak very little when I'm nervous.
nacimiento noun	nacimiento	noun	birth, beginning, start	Desde su nacimiento, la empresa creció rápidamente.	From its inception, the company grew rapidly.
equipaje noun	equipaje	noun	luggage	Perdí mi equipaje en el aeropuerto.	I lost my luggage at the airport.
líder noun	líder	noun	leader (of a group of people, a sports team etc.)	Buscamos líderes honestos en nuestra comunidad.	We are looking for honest leaders in our community.
comunitario adj	comunitario	adj	community	xxx	xxx
regar verb	regar	verb	to irrigate	¿A qué hora riegas el jardín comunitario?	What time do you water the community garden?
encantado adj	encantado	adj	enchanted, charmed	Estoy encantado con el resultado final.	I am delighted with the final result.
escalar verb	escalar	verb	to scale, to climb	Quiero escalar montañas con amigos.	I want to climb mountains with friends.
magnitud noun	magnitud	noun	magnitude	xxx	xxx
escalar adj	escalar	adj	scalar	La magnitud escalar no tiene dirección.	Scalar magnitude has no direction.
propiedad noun	propiedad	noun	propriety (fact of possessing something), proprietary	Dividieron la propiedad en partes iguales.	They divided the property into equal parts.
obligado adj	obligado	adj	obliged, obligated	No estoy obligado a responder ahora.	I am not obligated to answer now.
ochenta num	ochenta	num	eighty	Viajamos ochenta kilómetros en coche.	We traveled eighty kilometers by car.
compuesto adj	compuesto	adj	compound, composite	El interés compuesto crece más rápido.	Compound interest grows faster.
pinta noun	pinta	noun	look, appearance	La herida tiene mala pinta.	The wound looks bad.
filosofía noun	filosofía	noun	philosophy	La filosofía me enseña a pensar.	Philosophy teaches me to think.
príncipe noun	príncipe	noun	prince	El joven príncipe aprendió historia con paciencia.	The young prince learned history with patience.
edición noun	edición	noun	edit, editing, edition	xxx	xxx
príncipe adj	príncipe	adj	first (edition of a publication)	La edición príncipe de ese poema es muy rara.	The first edition of that poem is very rare.
especie noun	especie	noun	species, type, sort, kind	xxx	xxx
sexo noun	sexo	noun	sex (the biological category)	Algunas especies de peces cambian de sexo según el ambiente.	Some species of fish change sex depending on the environment.
nuclear adj	nuclear	adj	nuclear	La familia nuclear tiene dos hijos.	The nuclear family has two children.
postre noun	postre	noun	dessert; sweet	Me encantan los postres de chocolate.	I love chocolate desserts.
numeroso adj	numeroso	adj	numerous	Encontramos numerosas opciones para viajar.	We found numerous options for traveling.
charlar verb	charlar	verb	to chat, to chatter, to chitchat	¿Puedes charlar conmigo durante cinco minutos ahora?	Can you chat with me for five minutes now?
circunstancia noun	circunstancia	noun	circumstance	Bajo ninguna circunstancia debes mentir.	Under no circumstances should you lie.
flauta noun	flauta	noun	flute	Compré una flauta de madera barata.	I bought a cheap wooden flute.
central adj	central	adj	central	La plaza central siempre se llena.	The central square always fills up.
espectáculo noun	espectáculo	noun	show, performance (play, dance, some act or series of acts of public entertainment, often live)	Compramos entradas para dos espectáculos nocturnos.	We bought tickets for two evening shows.
postal adj	postal	adj	postal	El servicio postal funciona más lentamente los lunes.	The postal service operates more slowly on Mondays.
postal noun	postal	noun	postcard	Compré una postal en el museo.	I bought a postcard at the museum.
estrecho adj	estrecho	adj	narrow	Esta silla tiene un asiento estrecho y duro.	This chair has a narrow, hard seat.
estrecho noun	estrecho	noun	strait	Muchos barcos cruzan el estrecho durante la noche tranquila.	Many ships cross the strait during the quiet night.
atrapado adj	atrapado	adj	caught, captured, trapped, stuck	Quedaron atrapados entre dos decisiones difíciles.	They were trapped between two difficult decisions.
tolerar verb	tolerar	verb	to tolerate	En esta casa toleramos opiniones diferentes.	In this house we tolerate different opinions.
profesional adj	profesional	adj	professional	Necesitamos herramientas profesionales para reparar bien.	We need professional tools to repair properly.
profesional noun	profesional	noun	professional	Contrataremos profesionales locales para el proyecto.	We will hire local professionals for the project.
baile noun	baile	noun	dance (the art, profession, and study of dancing)	Practica el baile clásico cada tarde.	They practice classical dance every afternoon.
especialmente adv	especialmente	adv	specially	Me gusta especialmente el chocolate caliente.	I especially like hot chocolate.
enero noun	enero	noun	January	Mi cumpleaños es en enero.	My birthday is in January.
cultivar noun	cultivar	noun	cultivar	El color del cultivar influye en las ventas.	The cultivar's color influences sales.
activo adj	activo	adj	active	Los niños están muy activos hoy.	The children are very active today.
activo noun	activo	noun	asset (any property or material right of an enterprise or individual)	El activo principal de la empresa es su marca.	The company's main asset is its brand.
desastre noun	desastre	noun	disaster, catastrophe, calamity	Nadie esperaba semejante desastre natural.	No one expected such a natural disaster.
salvaje adj	salvaje	adj	wild, savage (untamed, not domesticated)	Vimos perros salvajes en la montaña.	We saw wild dogs on the mountain.
salvaje noun	salvaje	noun	savage	En la novela, lo llaman un salvaje.	In the novel, they call him a savage.
preocupación noun	preocupación	noun	preoccupation	La preocupación por el clima aumenta.	Concern about the climate is increasing.
anciana noun	anciana	noun	female equivalent of anciano	La anciana camina despacio cada mañana.	The elderly woman walks slowly every morning.
habitual adj	habitual	adj	habitual	Su comportamiento habitual preocupa a todos.	Their usual behavior worries everyone.
puerto noun	puerto	noun	port, harbour	El barco llegó al puerto esta mañana.	The ship arrived at the port this morning.
quinto adj	quinto	adj	fifth	Encontré la respuesta en la quinta página.	I found the answer on the fifth page.
quinto noun	quinto	noun	fifth, ¹⁄₅	Dos quintos del grupo llegaron tarde.	Two fifths of the group arrived late.
adolescente adj	adolescente	adj	adolescent	El chico adolescente estudia cada tarde.	The teenage boy studies every afternoon.
adolescente noun	adolescente	noun	adolescent, teenager	Muchos adolescentes necesitan apoyo familiar.	Many teenagers need family support.
líquido adj	líquido	adj	liquid	La pintura líquida se seca muy rápido.	Liquid paint dries very quickly.
líquido noun	líquido	noun	liquid; fluid	Los líquidos cambian de forma fácilmente.	Liquids change shape easily.
alarma noun	alarma	noun	alarm (a summons to arms)	Tras la alarma, los soldados corrieron al muro.	After the alarm, the soldiers ran to the wall.
tigre noun	tigre	noun	tiger	Un tigre puede correr muy rápido al cazar.	A tiger can run very fast when hunting.
biblia noun	biblia	noun	bible (a comprehensive manual that describes something)	En música, ese diccionario sirve como biblia para estudiantes.	In music, that dictionary serves as a bible for students.
ardilla noun	ardilla	noun	squirrel	Una ardilla gris vivía cerca del parque.	A gray squirrel lived near the park.
gigante adj	gigante	adj	giant, gigantic	Vimos mariposas gigantes en el parque.	We saw giant butterflies in the park.
gigante noun	gigante	noun	giant	El gigante pidió agua y pan.	The giant asked for water and bread.
elemento noun	elemento	noun	element (atmospheric forces)	Los marineros enfrentaron los elementos con calma y experiencia.	The sailors faced the elements with calm and experience.
sudo verb	sudo	verb	first-person singular present indicative of sudar	xxx	xxx
picar verb	picar	verb	to itch (to feel itchy; to feel a need to be scratched)	Cuando sudo, me pican las piernas.	When I sweat, my legs itch.
contraseña noun	contraseña	noun	password	Por favor, ingresa tu contraseña segura.	Please enter your secure password.
cocer verb	cocer	verb	to boil	¿Puedes cocer los huevos durante diez minutos?	Can you boil the eggs for ten minutes?
referir verb	referir	verb	to report	Ayer le referí el problema al jefe.	Yesterday I referred the problem to the boss.
agotar verb	agotar	verb	to exhaust, deplete, use up	Corrió tanto que se agotó enseguida.	They ran so much that they got exhausted right away.
esquiar verb	esquiar	verb	to ski	Me gusta esquiar en invierno.	I like to ski in winter.
templo noun	templo	noun	temple (a house of worship)	El templo antiguo está en la colina.	The ancient temple is on the hill.
ilusión noun	ilusión	noun	illusion	Confundió la sombra con una ilusión.	They confused the shadow with an illusion.
cuaderno noun	cuaderno	noun	notebook	Necesito un cuaderno nuevo para matemáticas.	I need a new notebook for math.
gira noun	gira	noun	tour (a journey through a list of places)	Su gira mundial agotó las entradas en todas partes.	Their world tour sold out everywhere.
petróleo noun	petróleo	noun	petroleum, oil	El precio del petróleo subió por la guerra.	The price of oil rose because of the war.
manga noun	manga	noun	sleeve	Tus mangas están demasiado largas hoy.	Your sleeves are too long today.
nieto noun	nieto	noun	grandchild; grandson	Mi nieto aprende a leer cada tarde.	My grandson is learning to read every afternoon.
jueves noun	jueves	noun	Thursday	El jueves tenemos examen de matemáticas.	On Thursday we have a math exam.
archivo noun	archivo	noun	archive	El archivo histórico guarda documentos valiosos.	The historical archive holds valuable documents.
decepcionado adj	decepcionado	adj	disappointed, gutted (UK), disillusioned	Ella quedó decepcionada porque cancelaron el concierto.	She was disappointed because they canceled the concert.
afortunado adj	afortunado	adj	lucky, fortunate	Me siento muy afortunado hoy.	I feel very fortunate today.
bombero noun	bombero	noun	firefighter	El bombero apagó el incendio rápidamente.	The firefighter put out the fire quickly.
engordar verb	engordar	verb	to get fat, grow fat, fatten	Antes, yo engordaba con mucha facilidad.	Before, I used to gain weight very easily.
presupuesto noun	presupuesto	noun	budget, estimate, reason, motive	xxx	xxx
encargar verb	encargar	verb	to entrust	Me encargaron revisar los presupuestos para mañana.	I was tasked with reviewing the budgets for tomorrow.
ánimo noun	ánimo	noun	soul, spirit, mood	Su estado de ánimo mejoró hoy.	Their mood improved today.
ánimo intj	ánimo	intj	have courage!, cheer up!, keep your head up!, good luck!, chin up!	¡Ánimo, que ya casi llegas!	Keep going, you're almost there!
químico adj	químico	adj	chemical (of or relating to chemistry)	Usaron productos químicos seguros para limpiar.	They used safe chemicals to clean.
químico noun	químico	noun	chemist (person working in chemistry)	Aquellas químicas enseñan seguridad en los experimentos.	Those women chemists teach safety in experiments.
anunciar verb	anunciar	verb	to announce, to herald, to proclaim	El gobierno anunciará nuevas medidas mañana.	The government will announce new measures tomorrow.
señorita noun	señorita	noun	young woman	Esa señorita lleva un vestido azul claro.	That young lady is wearing a light blue dress.
escenario noun	escenario	noun	scenario	El escenario político cambia cada año.	The political landscape changes every year.
atropellar verb	atropellar	verb	to run over; to drive over	Ayer un coche atropelló a mi vecino.	Yesterday a car hit my neighbor.
lámpara noun	lámpara	noun	lamp	Encendí la lámpara para leer.	I turned on the lamp to read.
crudo adj	crudo	adj	raw (uncooked)	La carne cruda puede causar enfermedades.	Raw meat can cause illnesses.
crudo noun	crudo	noun	crude oil	Los crudos pesados requieren más tratamiento.	Heavy crude oils require more processing.
caluroso adj	caluroso	adj	very hot, to a greater extent than caliente	Hoy fue un día muy caluroso.	Today was a very hot day.
beneficio noun	beneficio	noun	benefit	Buscamos el beneficio de todos.	We seek the benefit of all.
temporada noun	temporada	noun	season, period, span of time	Esta temporada de lluvias fue intensa.	This rainy season was intense.
cucaracha noun	cucaracha	noun	cockroach	Vi una cucaracha en la cocina anoche.	I saw a cockroach in the kitchen last night.
educar verb	educar	verb	to educate, instruct	Debemos educar a los niños.	We must educate children.
gasolina noun	gasolina	noun	petrol, gasoline	La gasolina está cada vez más cara.	Gasoline is getting more and more expensive.
vistazo noun	vistazo	noun	look, glance	Eché un vistazo al documento.	I took a look at the document.
guante noun	guante	noun	glove (hand-wear)	Necesito guantes nuevos para la nieve.	I need new gloves for the snow.
positivo adj	positivo	adj	positive	El equipo mostró un espíritu muy positivo.	The team showed a very positive spirit.
superficie noun	superficie	noun	surface	La superficie del agua estaba tranquila.	The surface of the water was calm.
trece num	trece	num	thirteen	Tengo trece años y estudio.	I am thirteen years old and I study.
trece noun	trece	noun	thirteen	Nació el trece de mayo.	They were born on May 13.
lata noun	lata	noun	can, tin, tin can, canister (vessel)	Compré una lata de tomates hoy.	I bought a can of tomatoes today.
cebolla noun	cebolla	noun	onion	Me gusta cortar cebolla para la ensalada.	I like chopping onions for the salad.
lotería noun	lotería	noun	lottery	Ganar la lotería puede cambiar una vida.	Winning the lottery can change a life.
existencia noun	existencia	noun	existence	La filosofía investiga la existencia y el sentido.	Philosophy investigates existence and meaning.
pesadilla noun	pesadilla	noun	nightmare	Esa película me dio pesadillas anoche.	That movie gave me nightmares last night.
poderoso adj	poderoso	adj	powerful	El océano es poderoso y merece respeto.	The ocean is powerful and deserves respect.
conjunto adj	conjunto	adj	joint	Hicieron un esfuerzo conjunto para ayudar.	They made a joint effort to help.
conjunto noun	conjunto	noun	outfit	Lleva un conjunto azul muy bonito.	She is wearing a very nice blue outfit.
brasileño adj	brasileño	adj	Brazilian	El equipo brasileño ganó el campeonato.	The Brazilian team won the championship.
brasileño noun	brasileño	noun	Brazilian (native or inhabitant of Brazil) (usually male)	Conocí a un brasileño en la universidad.	I met a Brazilian at the university.
eficaz adj	eficaz	adj	efficacious	Necesitamos herramientas eficaces para el proyecto.	We need effective tools for the project.
básico adj	básico	adj	basic (elementary, simple, fundamental)	Necesitas conocimientos básicos de programación.	You need basic programming knowledge.
pobreza noun	pobreza	noun	poverty	La pobreza afecta a muchas familias en el mundo.	Poverty affects many families in the world.
adquirir verb	adquirir	verb	to acquire	Ella adquirió el libro ayer.	She acquired the book yesterday.
influencia noun	influencia	noun	influence, clout	Las redes sociales aumentan su influencia durante las elecciones locales.	Social media increase their influence during local elections.
sangrar verb	sangrar	verb	to bleed	¿Cuánto tiempo sangrará la herida?	How long will the wound bleed?
almohada noun	almohada	noun	pillow (soft cushion used to support the head)	Prefiero dormir con una almohada alta.	I prefer to sleep with a thick pillow.
principalmente adv	principalmente	adv	mainly	Comemos verduras principalmente por salud.	We eat vegetables mainly for health reasons.
aquél pron	aquél	pron	that one (far from speaker and listener)	¿Quieres este libro o aquél?	Do you want this book or that one?
musical adj	musical	adj	musical	Escucharon un programa musical interesante.	They listened to an interesting music program.
musical noun	musical	noun	musical	Me encantó ese musical familiar.	I loved that family-friendly musical.
organizar verb	organizar	verb	to organize	Necesitamos organizar la reunión de mañana.	We need to organize tomorrow's meeting.
ballena noun	ballena	noun	whale	La ballena necesita salir a respirar aire.	The whale needs to come up to breathe air.
surgir verb	surgir	verb	to arise, emerge, surface, crop up, spring up, pop up	Han surgido dudas sobre el proyecto.	Doubts have arisen about the project.
princesa noun	princesa	noun	princess	La princesa estudia historia y música.	The princess studies history and music.
conflicto noun	conflicto	noun	conflict	Evitaron conflictos mediante reglas claras.	They avoided conflicts through clear rules.
convenir verb	convenir	verb	to agree, agree on, agree upon	¿Convienes en que fue un error?	Do you agree that it was a mistake?
boleto noun	boleto	noun	ticket	Compré dos boletos para el concierto.	I bought two tickets for the concert.
lástima noun	lástima	noun	pity	Es una lástima perder el tiempo.	It's a shame to waste time.
usuario noun	usuario	noun	user	Un usuario satisfecho recomienda nuestro servicio.	A satisfied user recommends our service.
aparcar verb	aparcar	verb	to park (to bring a vehicle to a halt in a specified place)	¿Dónde podemos aparcar el coche hoy?	Where can we park the car today?
repartir verb	repartir	verb	to share, give out	¿Puedes repartir las invitaciones mañana?	Can you hand out the invitations tomorrow?
contentar verb	contentar	verb	to please	No puedo contentar a todos.	I can't please everyone.
extraordinario adj	extraordinario	adj	extraordinary	Fue un logro extraordinario para todos.	It was an extraordinary achievement for everyone.
delgado adj	delgado	adj	thin, skinny	Ella está más delgada este verano.	She is thinner this summer.
separado adj	separado	adj	separated, apart	Mis padres viven separados, pero contentos.	My parents live apart, but they are happy.
toro noun	toro	noun	bull	Los toros pueden correr muy rápido.	Bulls can run very fast.
trago noun	trago	noun	gulp, sip	Tomó un trago de agua fría.	They took a drink of cold water.
intento noun	intento	noun	attempt	Hicimos otro intento en la tarde.	We made another attempt in the afternoon.
amante adj	amante	adj	loving	Es un padre amante y paciente.	He is a loving and patient father.
amante noun	amante	noun	lover (a person who loves something)	Soy un amante de los libros antiguos.	I am a lover of old books.
cima noun	cima	noun	top	Llegamos a la cima temprano.	We reached the summit early.
vital adj	vital	adj	vital	xxx	xxx
signo noun	signo	noun	sign, indication	Los médicos revisaron sus signos vitales.	The doctors checked their vital signs.
pecado noun	pecado	noun	sin	Consideran la mentira un pecado grave.	They consider lying a serious sin.
reserva noun	reserva	noun	reservation, booking (arrangement by which accommodation or transport arrangements are secured in advance)	Hicimos la reserva del hotel ayer.	We made the hotel reservation yesterday.
alzar verb	alzar	verb	to lift, raise	Ella alzó la mirada y sonrió.	She looked up and smiled.
prácticamente adv	prácticamente	adv	practically	Prácticamente todos llegaron tarde hoy.	Practically everyone arrived late today.
garganta noun	garganta	noun	throat	Me duele la garganta desde ayer.	My throat has been hurting since yesterday.
contenido noun	contenido	noun	content (of a text, artwork or media production)	Revisa el contenido antes de publicar el video.	Check the content before posting the video.
robo noun	robo	noun	robbery, theft	Fui víctima de un robo en el tren.	I was robbed on the train.
maestra noun	maestra	noun	female equivalent of maestro: female teacher	Mi maestra de matemáticas siempre ayuda a sus alumnos.	My math teacher always helps her students.
prima noun	prima	noun	bonus	La compañía anunció nuevas primas por seguridad.	The company announced new safety bonuses.
horno noun	horno	noun	oven	Mi cocina tiene dos hornos eléctricos muy eficientes.	My kitchen has two very efficient electric ovens.
aparato noun	aparato	noun	apparatus, device, tool, instrument, appliance	Apaga el aparato cuando termines.	Turn off the device when you're done.
compromiso noun	compromiso	noun	commitment	Demostraron un fuerte compromiso social ayer.	They demonstrated a strong social commitment yesterday.
abril noun	abril	noun	April	Abril suele traer clima agradable.	April usually brings pleasant weather.
oeste noun	oeste	noun	west	El sol se oculta por el oeste.	The sun sets in the west.
grito noun	grito	noun	a cry, a yell, a scream, a growl	Sus gritos de alegría llenaron la sala.	Their shouts of joy filled the room.
ajo noun	ajo	noun	garlic	Me gusta cocinar con ajo fresco.	I like to cook with fresh garlic.
clave noun	clave	noun	key (to a problem or puzzle)	La clave para entender el experimento era la temperatura.	The key to understanding the experiment was the temperature.
clave adj	clave	adj	key (important)	Este paso es clave para entender el tema.	This step is key to understanding the topic.
extremo adj	extremo	adj	extreme, dire	En la montaña sufrimos frío extremo.	In the mountains we suffered extreme cold.
extremo noun	extremo	noun	extreme	Los extremos nunca son saludables.	Extremes are never healthy.
gasto noun	gasto	noun	expenditure, cost	Este gasto inesperado afecta mi presupuesto.	This unexpected expense affects my budget.
despegar verb	despegar	verb	to detach, to remove, to unstick	No despeguen la etiqueta hasta pagar.	Do not remove the label until you pay.
oscurecer verb	oscurecer	verb	to darken	Si oscureciera antes, saldríamos temprano.	If it got dark earlier, we would leave early.
copiar verb	copiar	verb	to copy, to crib	Siempre copian las instrucciones en su cuaderno.	They always copy the instructions into their notebooks.
expulsar verb	expulsar	verb	to expel	Si vuelves a hacer trampa, te expulsaré.	If you cheat again, I will expel you.
nuevamente adv	nuevamente	adv	newly	Practicamos nuevamente para mejorar juntos.	We practice again to improve together.
alérgico adj	alérgico	adj	allergic	Soy alérgico a los gatos desde niño.	I've been allergic to cats since I was a child.
astuto adj	astuto	adj	cunning, crafty, sly, wily, slick, foxy, artful	El zorro es muy astuto.	The fox is very cunning.
sujeto adj	sujeto	adj	held, grasped	La bicicleta quedó sujeta con una cadena.	The bicycle was secured with a chain.
sujeto noun	sujeto	noun	subject	¿Quién es el sujeto de la oración?	Who is the subject of the sentence?
definitivamente adv	definitivamente	adv	definitely	Definitivamente no quiero llegar tarde.	I definitely don't want to be late.
masticar verb	masticar	verb	to chew	Estoy masticando una manzana roja mientras camino.	I am chewing a red apple as I walk.
rima noun	rima	noun	rhyme	Sin rima, la canción suena distinta.	Without rhyme, the song sounds different.
agotado adj	agotado	adj	tired, exhausted, worn out	Ella se siente agotada hoy.	She feels exhausted today.
atender verb	atender	verb	to pay attention to (something); to attend to (something)	Siempre atiendo a lo que dices.	I always pay attention to what you say.
eliminar verb	eliminar	verb	to eliminate	Necesitamos eliminar los archivos viejos.	We need to delete the old files.
exterior adj	exterior	adj	external, outer	Pintamos la pared exterior de blanco.	We painted the exterior wall white.
exterior noun	exterior	noun	outside	Viajamos al exterior en verano.	We travel abroad in the summer.
plano adj	plano	adj	plane, level	Pinta sobre una superficie plana.	Paint on a flat surface.
recta noun	recta	noun	straight, straight line	xxx	xxx
plano noun	plano	noun	plane (flat surface extending infinitely in all directions)	Un plano contiene infinitos puntos y rectas.	A plane contains infinitely many points and lines.
estallar verb	estallar	verb	to explode, to blow up, to burst	El conflicto estalló tras las elecciones.	The conflict broke out after the elections.
estructura noun	estructura	noun	structure	Analizamos las estructuras de datos en programación.	We analyze data structures in programming.
interpretar verb	interpretar	verb	to interpret, explain, decipher	Podemos interpretar los resultados juntos.	We can interpret the results together.
queja noun	queja	noun	complaint, grievance, gripe, grumble	Recibimos varias quejas esta semana.	We received several complaints this week.
amenaza noun	amenaza	noun	threat, menace	Hubo una amenaza de bomba en el estadio.	There was a bomb threat at the stadium.
particular adj	particular	adj	specific, particular	Busco una solución particular para esto.	I’m looking for a specific solution to this.
particular noun	particular	noun	individual, private citizen	La policía escuchó a un particular.	The police listened to a private individual.
rodear verb	rodear	verb	to round up	Ellos rodeaban la casa para atraparlo.	They were surrounding the house to catch him.
física noun	física	noun	physics (branch of science)	Mi profesora de física es muy clara.	My physics teacher is very clear.
provenir verb	provenir	verb	originate, arise (from)	Han provenido de distintos países.	They have come from different countries.
bordo noun	bordo	noun	side, board	El servicio a bordo incluye bebidas.	The onboard service includes beverages.
candidato noun	candidato	noun	candidate	El candidato presentó propuestas claras.	The candidate presented clear proposals.
trigo noun	trigo	noun	wheat	Los trigos modernos rinden más que los antiguos.	Modern wheat varieties yield more than older ones.
truco noun	truco	noun	trick	Tengo un truco para recordar nombres.	I have a trick for remembering names.
infantil adj	infantil	adj	childish; childlike	Esa risa infantil nos hizo sonreír.	That childlike laughter made us smile.
coser verb	coser	verb	to sew	Si cosieras despacio, quedaría mejor.	If you sewed slowly, it would turn out better.
tono noun	tono	noun	tone	Baja el tono cuando hablas.	Lower your tone when you speak.
alternativa noun	alternativa	noun	alternative, option	Necesitamos una alternativa segura y rápida.	We need a safe and fast alternative.
avergonzado adj	avergonzado	adj	embarrassed, ashamed	Estoy avergonzado por mi error.	I am embarrassed by my mistake.
gol noun	gol	noun	goal	Su gol temprano cambió todo el partido.	His early goal changed the whole match.
gol intj	gol	intj	goal!	En el bar, todos gritaron muy fuerte: ¡Gol!	At the bar, everyone shouted very loudly: Goal!
pirata noun	pirata	noun	pirate (person who reproduces copyrighted works without permission)	La policía detuvo al pirata que subía películas a internet.	The police arrested the pirate who was uploading movies to the internet.
territorio noun	territorio	noun	territory	En todo el territorio hay leyes distintas.	There are different laws throughout the territory.
pasión noun	pasión	noun	passion	Ella canta con pasión cada noche.	She sings with passion every night.
extraterrestre adj	extraterrestre	adj	extraterrestrial	Los científicos buscan vida extraterrestre en Marte.	Scientists are searching for extraterrestrial life on Mars.
extraterrestre noun	extraterrestre	noun	extraterrestrial	Un extraterrestre visitó la Tierra ayer.	An extraterrestrial visited Earth yesterday.
desafortunadamente adv	desafortunadamente	adv	unfortunately; regrettably	Desafortunadamente, no pude ir ayer.	Unfortunately, I couldn't go yesterday.
palo noun	palo	noun	stake, stick, wood	Corté los palos secos del jardín.	I cut the dry sticks in the garden.
firme adj	firme	adj	firm, steady, secure	El suelo se siente firme aquí.	The ground feels firm here.
doblar verb	doblar	verb	to fold	¿Puedes doblar este papel por la mitad?	Can you fold this paper in half?
ignorancia noun	ignorancia	noun	ignorance	La ignorancia no es excusa.	Ignorance is no excuse.
consultar verb	consultar	verb	to consult	Necesito consultar al médico mañana.	I need to consult the doctor tomorrow.
urgente adj	urgente	adj	urgent	Tenemos un asunto urgente en casa.	We have an urgent matter at home.
atar verb	atar	verb	to tie, tie up, tie down, to tether (secure (something) by rope or the like)	Voy a atar mis zapatos ahora mismo.	I'm going to tie my shoes right now.
apreciar verb	apreciar	verb	to appreciate (to increase in value)	El peso se apreció hoy frente al dólar.	The peso appreciated today against the dollar.
ruina noun	ruina	noun	ruin, decay, wreck (also figurative)	El incendio dejó la casa en ruinas.	The fire left the house in ruins.
duchar verb	duchar	verb	to shower	¿Te duchaste antes de salir?	Did you shower before leaving?
tinta noun	tinta	noun	ink	Cuidado, la tinta puede manchar tu camisa favorita.	Careful, the ink can stain your favorite shirt.
bola noun	bola	noun	ball	Hicimos una bola de nieve enorme juntos.	We made a huge snowball together.
alcalde noun	alcalde	noun	mayor (the leader of a city or a municipality)	Los alcaldes de la región se reunieron ayer.	The mayors of the region met yesterday.
pantalla noun	pantalla	noun	screen	Puse la película en pantalla completa.	I put the movie on full screen.
tablero noun	tablero	noun	board	Colocamos las piezas sobre el tablero de ajedrez.	We placed the pieces on the chessboard.
independiente adj	independiente	adj	independent, autonomous	Necesitamos equipos independientes para comparar los resultados.	We need independent teams to compare the results.
calcular verb	calcular	verb	to calculate	Ella calculó la distancia con cuidado.	She calculated the distance carefully.
delicado adj	delicado	adj	delicate	Maneja los vasos; son muy delicados.	Handle the glasses; they're very fragile.
trasero adj	trasero	adj	back, back-side, rear-side, posterior	Colocaron las cajas en el patio trasero.	They placed the boxes in the backyard.
trasero noun	trasero	noun	behind, butt, rear-end, posterior	Se sentó sobre su trasero para descansar.	They sat on their backside to rest.
pesca noun	pesca	noun	fishing	Mi abuelo disfruta de la pesca.	My grandfather enjoys fishing.
únicamente adv	únicamente	adv	only, uniquely	Únicamente aceptamos pagos con tarjeta.	We only accept card payments.
volumen noun	volumen	noun	volume (a bound book)	La biblioteca presta varios volúmenes cada semana.	The library lends several volumes each week.
obligatorio adj	obligatorio	adj	mandatory	Es obligatorio respetar las normas.	It is mandatory to follow the rules.
casilla noun	casilla	noun	box (small area on a document for a tick mark)	Debes marcar todas las casillas obligatorias.	You must check all the required boxes.
burro noun	burro	noun	donkey, especially one used as a pack animal	Los burros son animales fuertes y pacientes.	Donkeys are strong and patient animals.
burro adj	burro	adj	stupid, foolish	No seas burro con ella.	Don't be a jerk to her.
escolar adj	escolar	adj	scholar; school	El uniforme escolar es obligatorio hoy.	The school uniform is mandatory today.
escolar noun	escolar	noun	student, schoolchild, schoolboy, schoolgirl	El escolar aprende a leer con paciencia.	The schoolchild learns to read patiently.
húngaro adj	húngaro	adj	Hungarian (from or native to Hungary)	Estudio el idioma húngaro en casa.	I study Hungarian at home.
húngaro noun	húngaro	noun	a Hungarian (male)	Aquel húngaro canta muy bonito.	That Hungarian sings very nicely.
escritura noun	escritura	noun	document, deed	Necesito una copia de la escritura.	I need a copy of the deed.
frecuentemente adv	frecuentemente	adv	often, frequently	Ellos llegan frecuentemente tarde a clase.	They frequently arrive late to class.
licencia noun	licencia	noun	license	Necesitas una licencia para conducir.	You need a license to drive.
videojuego noun	videojuego	noun	video game	Mis amigos coleccionan muchos videojuegos.	My friends collect many video games.
tejado noun	tejado	noun	tiled roof	El tejado tiene una chimenea pequeña.	The roof has a small chimney.
universitario adj	universitario	adj	university	La biblioteca universitaria abre todos los días.	The university library opens every day.
universitario noun	universitario	noun	university student	La universitaria busca prácticas profesionales en verano.	The university student is looking for internships in the summer.
imponer verb	imponer	verb	to impose, impress	El director impone reglas claras diariamente.	The director imposes clear rules daily.
organización noun	organización	noun	organization	Esta organización trabaja por la educación de las niñas.	This organization works for the education of girls.
ay intj	ay	intj	ah!, alas!	¡Ay, olvidé las llaves otra vez!	Oh, I forgot the keys again!
ay verb	ay	verb	obsolete spelling of hay	Ay muchas razones para estudiar.	Oh there are many reasons to study.
progreso noun	progreso	noun	progress, headway, advancement	El progreso tecnológico beneficia a todos.	Technological progress benefits everyone.
pasta noun	pasta	noun	paste, dough	El dentista recomienda cambiar la pasta de dientes.	The dentist recommends changing the toothpaste.
nido noun	nido	noun	nest	Los niños observaron el nido vacío.	The children observed the empty nest.
raíz noun	raíz	noun	root; root vegetable	Las raíces sostienen la planta en el suelo.	The roots support the plant in the ground.
orgullo noun	orgullo	noun	pride (arrogance, haughtiness)	Su orgullo le impide pedir disculpas.	His pride prevents him from apologizing.
febrero noun	febrero	noun	February	En febrero hace mucho frío.	In February it is very cold.
excepción noun	excepción	noun	exception	Sin excepción, todos deben firmar hoy.	Without exception, everyone must sign today.
pasillo noun	pasillo	noun	hallway, corridor	Pusimos una alfombra larga en el pasillo.	We put a long rug in the hallway.
revolución noun	revolución	noun	revolution (political/social)	La revolución social exigía justicia y libertad.	The social revolution demanded justice and freedom.
tijera noun	tijera	noun	scissors	Corta el papel con las tijeras.	Cut the paper with the scissors.
obligación noun	obligación	noun	obligation	Aceptó sus obligaciones con responsabilidad.	They accepted their obligations responsibly.
triunfar verb	triunfar	verb	to triumph	Triunfamos juntos porque nos apoyamos siempre.	We succeed together because we always support each other.
adonde adv	adonde	adv	to where, whither	El guía nos llevó adonde almorzamos ayer.	The guide took us to where we had lunch yesterday.
salsa noun	salsa	noun	sauce, gravy (liquid condiment)	Prefiero salsas suaves para los niños.	I prefer mild sauces for the children.
pañuelo noun	pañuelo	noun	handkerchief	Siempre llevo un pañuelo limpio.	I always carry a clean handkerchief.
desconocer verb	desconocer	verb	to not be familiar with, to not know, to not recognize	Desconozco la respuesta a tu pregunta.	I do not know the answer to your question.
vía noun	vía	noun	way, means	Esta vía de comunicación funciona bien.	This means of communication works well.
vía prep	vía	prep	via	Envíame el documento vía correo electrónico.	Send me the document via email.
zanahoria noun	zanahoria	noun	carrot (root vegetable, usually orange)	Compré zanahorias frescas en el mercado.	I bought fresh carrots at the market.
contactar verb	contactar	verb	to contact, to reach out to	Prometió contactar nuevamente cuando llegara.	They promised to get in touch again when they arrived.
pecar verb	pecar	verb	to sin	Todos podemos pecar alguna vez.	We can all sin at some point.
traductor adj	traductor	adj	translating, translator	Este programa traductor ayuda con los idiomas.	This translation program helps with languages.
traductor noun	traductor	noun	translator (a language interpreter)	El traductor interpretó el discurso rápidamente.	The translator interpreted the speech quickly.
trato noun	trato	noun	treatment	El trato a los animales debe mejorar.	The treatment of animals must improve.
húmedo adj	húmedo	adj	humid, moist, damp	Los zapatos quedaron húmedos por la lluvia.	The shoes got damp from the rain.
círculo noun	círculo	noun	circle	Los niños formaron un círculo para jugar.	The children formed a circle to play.
crema noun	crema	noun	cream (cosmetic product)	Compré dos cremas para el rostro.	I bought two face creams.
crema adj	crema	adj	cream, creamy (cream-colored)	Compré una camisa crema para el verano.	I bought a cream shirt for the summer.
tumba noun	tumba	noun	grave, tomb	Visitamos la tumba de mi abuelo.	We visited my grandfather's grave.
exacto adj	exacto	adj	exact	Tu dibujo es exacto, sin errores.	Your drawing is exact, without errors.
exacto noun	exacto	noun	utility knife, paper cutter	Usa el exacto con una regla.	Use the X-Acto knife with a ruler.
pálido adj	pálido	adj	ashen, pale, pallid, pasty	Sus manos pálidas temblaban de frío.	Their pale hands were trembling from the cold.
lucha noun	lucha	noun	fight, fighting, fray	Su lucha contra el cáncer inspira a muchos.	Their fight against cancer inspires many.
disminuir verb	disminuir	verb	to decrease	Estamos disminuyendo el uso del plástico.	We are reducing the use of plastic.
tristeza noun	tristeza	noun	sadness, gloom, sorrow, gloominess, unhappiness, misery	Siento una profunda tristeza hoy.	I feel a deep sadness today.
insultar verb	insultar	verb	to insult, offend	No debes insultar a tus compañeros.	You shouldn't insult your classmates.
pera noun	pera	noun	pear	Compré peras frescas en el mercado.	I bought fresh pears at the market.
sándwich noun	sándwich	noun	sandwich	¿Quieres compartir mi sándwich de pollo?	Do you want to share my chicken sandwich?
delito noun	delito	noun	crime; offense	Cometer un delito tiene consecuencias serias.	Committing a crime has serious consequences.
abundar verb	abundar	verb	to abound	Ojalá abunden las oportunidades para todos mañana.	I hope opportunities abound for everyone tomorrow.
infeliz adj	infeliz	adj	unhappy	Ella se siente infeliz en su trabajo.	She feels unhappy at her job.
mochila noun	mochila	noun	backpack	Su mochila tiene muchos bolsillos útiles.	Their backpack has many useful pockets.
cristal noun	cristal	noun	crystal	El vaso de cristal se cayó.	The crystal glass fell.
sustancia noun	sustancia	noun	substance	Cada sustancia tiene propiedades únicas.	Each substance has unique properties.
operar verb	operar	verb	to operate (to perform surgery)	Están operando a la mujer herida ahora.	They are operating on the injured woman now.
magnífico adj	magnífico	adj	magnificent	El concierto de anoche fue magnífico.	Last night's concert was magnificent.
zoológico adj	zoológico	adj	zoological	Visitamos el jardín zoológico local hoy.	We visited the local zoological garden today.
zoológico noun	zoológico	noun	zoo	Compramos boletos para el zoológico.	We bought tickets for the zoo.
fijar verb	fijar	verb	to fix, fasten, set, establish, determine	Debemos fijar metas claras para todos.	We must set clear goals for everyone.
agosto noun	agosto	noun	August	Los agostos de mi infancia fueron especialmente calurosos.	The Augusts of my childhood were especially hot.
identificación noun	identificación	noun	identification	xxx	xxx
portar verb	portar	verb	to bear, to carry	Ella siempre porta su identificación oficial.	She always carries her official identification.
llegada noun	llegada	noun	arrival	Celebramos su llegada a casa anoche.	We celebrated their arrival home last night.
telefónico adj	telefónico	adj	telephonic; pertaining to telephones	La compañía telefónica ofrece planes económicos.	The telephone company offers affordable plans.
noventa num	noventa	num	ninety	Tengo noventa lápices en casa.	I have ninety pencils at home.
individuo noun	individuo	noun	individual	Cada individuo tiene derechos y responsabilidades.	Each individual has rights and responsibilities.
impresionante adj	impresionante	adj	impressive	Los fuegos artificiales fueron impresionantes anoche.	The fireworks were impressive last night.
egoísta adj	egoísta	adj	egotistic (believing oneself to be superior)	El líder egoísta ignoró nuestras necesidades.	The selfish leader ignored our needs.
egoísta noun	egoísta	noun	egotist	Los egoístas suelen perder amigos rápidamente.	Selfish people usually lose friends quickly.
enojado adj	enojado	adj	angry, mad	Ella sigue enojada por la discusión.	She is still angry about the argument.
espacial adj	espacial	adj	spatial (pertaining to outer space)	El programa espacial del país crece lentamente.	The country's space program is growing slowly.
demanda noun	demanda	noun	demand	La demanda de energía aumenta.	The demand for energy is increasing.
señalar verb	señalar	verb	to signal	El guardia señala la salida a los turistas.	The guard points out the exit to the tourists.
opinar verb	opinar	verb	to think; to be of the opinion	Yo opino que deberíamos salir temprano.	I think we should leave early.
apresurar verb	apresurar	verb	to quicken	Apresuraron el proceso sin revisarlo.	They rushed the process without reviewing it.
relacionado adj	relacionado	adj	related	Este problema está relacionado con la economía.	This problem is related to the economy.
alquiler noun	alquiler	noun	rent (a payment made in exchange for something borrowed, and its amount)	El alquiler incluye agua, pero no electricidad.	The rent includes water, but not electricity.
horizonte noun	horizonte	noun	horizon	Avanzamos hasta el horizonte con esperanza.	We advanced to the horizon with hope.
religioso adj	religioso	adj	religious	Mis abuelos siguen costumbres religiosas antiguas.	My grandparents follow ancient religious customs.
fresa noun	fresa	noun	strawberry	Me gusta comer fresas frescas en verano.	I like to eat fresh strawberries in summer.
fresa adj	fresa	adj	someone seen as snobby, or as privileged by means of money or social status.	Prefiere lugares fresas para cenar.	He prefers posh places for dinner.
examinar verb	examinar	verb	to examine	Mientras examinábamos, encontramos varios errores.	While we were examining, we found several errors.
baloncesto noun	baloncesto	noun	basketball (sport)	Aprendí reglas básicas de baloncesto en la escuela.	I learned basic basketball rules in school.
pozo noun	pozo	noun	well (hole in the ground as a source of water or other fluids)	Los vecinos sacan agua del pozo cada mañana.	The neighbors draw water from the well every morning.
instalar verb	instalar	verb	to install	Instalaron cámaras nuevas para mejorar la seguridad.	They installed new cameras to improve security.
fabricar verb	fabricar	verb	to manufacture	La empresa fabrica autos eléctricos nuevos.	The company manufactures new electric cars.
actriz noun	actriz	noun	actress, actor (female)	La actriz ganó un premio importante.	The actress won a major award.
tradicional adj	tradicional	adj	traditional	Celebramos una fiesta tradicional cada año.	We celebrate a traditional festival every year.
rescatar verb	rescatar	verb	to rescue	Estamos rescatando a los turistas atrapados.	We are rescuing the trapped tourists.
navegar verb	navegar	verb	to navigate, to sail	Mañana navegaremos juntos por la costa.	Tomorrow we will sail together along the coast.
acusado adj	acusado	adj	accused	El hombre acusado negó los hechos.	The accused man denied the facts.
acusado noun	acusado	noun	accused, defendant	El acusado declaró que era inocente.	The defendant declared that he was innocent.
canal noun	canal	noun	canal, flume, waterway (artificial)	Hay puentes pequeños sobre el canal del pueblo.	There are small bridges over the town's canal.
patria noun	patria	noun	homeland, fatherland, motherland	Amo profundamente a mi patria.	I love my homeland deeply.
graduar verb	graduar	verb	to graduate	¿Cuándo piensas graduarte de medicina?	When do you plan to graduate from medical school?
injusto adj	injusto	adj	unfair	Es injusto que me culpen.	It's unfair that they blame me.
sorprendente adj	sorprendente	adj	surprising	La película fue muy sorprendente para todos.	The movie was very surprising to everyone.
hilo noun	hilo	noun	thread, yarn, string	Compré hilos de varios colores.	I bought thread in various colors.
leyenda noun	leyenda	noun	legend, saga, traditional story	Según la leyenda, el héroe nunca murió.	According to the legend, the hero never died.
anotar verb	anotar	verb	to annotate	Prefiero anotar detalles mientras leo artículos.	I prefer to jot down details while I read articles.
fundamental adj	fundamental	adj	fundamental	Es fundamental practicar todos los días.	It is essential to practice every day.
diamante noun	diamante	noun	diamond	Guardó los diamantes en una caja fuerte.	They stored the diamonds in a safe.
vegetariano noun	vegetariano	noun	vegetarian	El vegetariano siempre trae su comida.	The vegetarian always brings their food.
vegetariano adj	vegetariano	adj	vegetarian	La dieta vegetariana es muy saludable.	The vegetarian diet is very healthy.
olla noun	olla	noun	pot, pan; kettle (vessel used for cooking food)	La olla estaba hirviendo lentamente.	The pot was boiling slowly.
pacífico adj	pacífico	adj	peaceful	Sus intenciones eran pacíficas desde el principio.	Their intentions were peaceful from the beginning.
informático adj	informático	adj	computer, informatic	xxx	xxx
virus noun	virus	noun	computer virus	Un virus informático puede borrar archivos importantes.	A computer virus can delete important files.
incidente noun	incidente	noun	incident	Hubo varios incidentes durante el concierto.	There were several incidents during the concert.
acelerar verb	acelerar	verb	to accelerate (to cause to move faster)	Si aceleras demasiado, podrías perder el control.	If you speed up too much, you could lose control.
posponer verb	posponer	verb	to postpone	Pospondremos el evento si llueve.	We will postpone the event if it rains.
asco noun	asco	noun	disgust	Qué asco me da la basura.	Trash really grosses me out.
campaña noun	campaña	noun	campaign	Su campaña política fue muy intensa.	Their political campaign was very intense.
robot noun	robot	noun	robot	Construimos un robot en clase.	We built a robot in class.
adaptar verb	adaptar	verb	to adapt, to adjust, to tailor (to make suitable)	Estoy adaptando la presentación para niños.	I am adapting the presentation for children.
alfabeto noun	alfabeto	noun	alphabet	Existen muchos alfabetos en distintas lenguas.	There are many alphabets in different languages.
alfabeto adj	alfabeto	adj	literate	Mi tía, alfabeta, ayuda a sus hijos.	My aunt, who is literate, helps her children.
librería noun	librería	noun	bookshop, bookstore	Frente a la librería hay un café tranquilo.	There is a quiet café in front of the bookstore.
personalmente adv	personalmente	adv	personally	Personalmente, prefiero el café sin azúcar.	Personally, I prefer coffee without sugar.
asumir verb	asumir	verb	to assume, take on	Quiero que asumas tu parte.	I want you to do your part.
basar verb	basar	verb	to base on	Basamos la decisión en los resultados.	We based the decision on the results.
estanque noun	estanque	noun	pool, pond (artificial, small inland body of water)	Los niños alimentan a los peces en el estanque escolar.	The children feed the fish in the school pond.
figura noun	figura	noun	figure	Observamos la figura en el mapa.	We observed the figure on the map.
derramar verb	derramar	verb	to spill, to leak	No debes derramar el café caliente.	You shouldn't spill the hot coffee.
harina noun	harina	noun	flour	Prefiero harinas de grano entero.	I prefer whole-grain flours.
violín noun	violín	noun	violin (string instrument)	Aprender violín requiere paciencia y constancia.	Learning the violin requires patience and perseverance.
calmar verb	calmar	verb	to calm, to still (to limit and lessen in motion and disturbance)	Se calmaron cuando llegó la ayuda.	They calmed down when help arrived.
tradición noun	tradición	noun	tradition	En la escuela estudiamos tradiciones de diferentes países.	At school we study traditions from different countries.
coma noun	coma	noun	comma (punctuation mark)	La coma separa elementos en listas.	The comma separates items in lists.
cepillar verb	cepillar	verb	to brush	Mientras hablas, estoy cepillando la chaqueta.	While you talk, I'm brushing the jacket.
aguja noun	aguja	noun	needle	Perdí la aguja mientras cosía.	I lost the needle while I was sewing.
habitar verb	habitar	verb	to inhabit, to live or dwell in / on	Antes, habitábamos en un pueblo tranquilo.	Before, we used to live in a quiet town.
lavadora noun	lavadora	noun	washing machine, washer, wash	La lavadora hace un ruido extraño.	The washing machine makes a strange noise.
grosero adj	grosero	adj	rude, crass, uncouth, cheeky, fresh, boorish, loutish, coarse	No seas grosero con tus profesores.	Don't be rude to your teachers.
sabroso adj	sabroso	adj	delicious, tasty, toothsome	Un desayuno sabroso mejora mi ánimo.	A tasty breakfast improves my mood.
flotar verb	flotar	verb	to float	¿Podrá flotar esa pelota ligera?	Will that light ball float?
colectivo adj	colectivo	adj	collective	El objetivo colectivo guía nuestras decisiones.	The collective goal guides our decisions.
colectivo noun	colectivo	noun	collective, group, association, union, guild	Formamos un colectivo para defender el barrio histórico.	We formed a collective to defend the historic neighborhood.
decepcionar verb	decepcionar	verb	to disappoint, to let down, to underwhelm	La película me decepcionó mucho ayer.	The movie disappointed me a lot yesterday.
impaciente adj	impaciente	adj	impatient	Estoy impaciente por ver los resultados.	I'm impatient to see the results.
mortal adj	mortal	adj	deadly	La enfermedad mortal se extendió rápidamente.	The deadly disease spread quickly.
maderero adj	maderero	adj	logging	xxx	xxx
industria noun	industria	noun	industry (businesses that produce goods)	En esta región, la industria maderera crece rápidamente.	In this region, the timber industry is growing rapidly.
argentino adj	argentino	adj	Argentinian, Argentine	Probamos un vino argentino excelente.	We tried an excellent Argentinian wine.
argentino noun	argentino	noun	Argentinian (person)	La argentina trabaja en una librería.	The Argentinian woman works at a bookstore.
explosión noun	explosión	noun	explosion, blast, bang, burst, boom	Hubo varias explosiones durante la tormenta eléctrica anoche.	There were several explosions during the thunderstorm last night.
pista noun	pista	noun	track, course, trail	El coche salió de la pista durante la carrera.	The car went off the track during the race.
jabón noun	jabón	noun	soap; a bar of soap	Compré un jabón líquido suave para la cocina.	I bought a gentle liquid soap for the kitchen.
cubo noun	cubo	noun	cube (a regular polyhedron having six identical square faces)	La figura muestra tres cubos iguales.	The figure shows three identical cubes.
estatua noun	estatua	noun	statue	Los niños dibujaron una estatua en clase.	The children drew a statue in class.
romántico adj	romántico	adj	romantic	La película fue muy romántica.	The movie was very romantic.
disco noun	disco	noun	club, discotheque	Vamos a la disco esta noche a bailar.	We're going to the club tonight to dance.
tela noun	tela	noun	cloth, fabric (woven material made of fibers)	Compré un metro de tela azul para coser.	I bought a meter of blue fabric for sewing.
tela adv	tela	adv	loads; lots; a shedload; extremely	Hay tela de tráfico hoy.	There's a lot of traffic today.
coraje noun	coraje	noun	courage, bravery, spunk	Encontró el coraje para pedir ayuda.	They found the courage to ask for help.
menú noun	menú	noun	menu (list of dishes offered at a restaurant)	Leímos el menú antes de ordenar.	We read the menu before ordering.
martillo noun	martillo	noun	hammer	Necesito un martillo para colgar cuadros.	I need a hammer to hang pictures.
grueso adj	grueso	adj	thick, fat	Usa calcetines gruesos en invierno.	Wear thick socks in winter.
lámina noun	lámina	noun	blade, engraving, lamina, sheet (of metal), slab, sill	xxx	xxx
grueso noun	grueso	noun	width, breadth, thickness	Ofrecen láminas en varios gruesos según el uso.	They offer sheets in various thicknesses depending on the use.
confuso adj	confuso	adj	confused	Estoy confuso con estas instrucciones.	I'm confused by these instructions.
cariño noun	cariño	noun	affection, fondness	Recibió mucho cariño de sus amigos.	He received a lot of affection from his friends.
desmayar verb	desmayar	verb	to cause a person to faint	El golpe lo desmayó al instante.	The blow knocked him out instantly.
relato noun	relato	noun	story	Ese relato trata sobre la amistad.	That story is about friendship.
criatura noun	criatura	noun	creature (living being), critter	Encontramos una pequeña criatura bajo la mesa.	We found a small creature under the table.
ancho adj	ancho	adj	wide; broad	Prefiero pasillos anchos en los edificios.	I prefer wide hallways in buildings.
ancho noun	ancho	noun	width, breadth, span	¿Cuál es el ancho de la puerta principal?	What is the width of the front door?
conformar verb	conformar	verb	to form, constitute	Los mejores estudiantes conformaban el grupo.	The best students made up the group.
dañar verb	dañar	verb	to damage, to harm, to hurt, to injure	No quiero dañar tus sentimientos.	I don't want to hurt your feelings.
podrido adj	podrido	adj	rotten, spoiled, addled	Tira esos huevos podridos inmediatamente, por favor.	Throw those rotten eggs away immediately, please.
continuo adj	continuo	adj	continual, constant (done or extending without interruption)	Necesitamos una atención continua en clase.	We need continuous attention in class.
continuo noun	continuo	noun	unity (an area extending without interruption)	En matemáticas, el continuo es el conjunto de los números reales.	In mathematics, the continuum is the set of real numbers.
caída noun	caída	noun	fall (act of falling)	Su caída por la escalera me asustó.	His fall down the stairs frightened me.
oculto adj	oculto	adj	occult	Encontraron a un maestro de saberes ocultos.	They found a master of occult knowledge.
unidad noun	unidad	noun	unit (object, military, or measure)	La unidad militar patrulló la frontera hoy.	The military unit patrolled the border today.
derrotar verb	derrotar	verb	to defeat	Mañana derrotaremos a ese fuerte equipo.	Tomorrow we will defeat that strong team.
diferenciar verb	diferenciar	verb	to differentiate (to show the difference between two things)	Están diferenciando bien los hechos de las opiniones.	They are distinguishing facts from opinions well.
prisionero noun	prisionero	noun	prisoner	El prisionero escapó de noche.	The prisoner escaped at night.
media noun	media	noun	half (one of two equal parts of any whole)	Me desperté a las seis y media.	I woke up at six thirty.
soltero adj	soltero	adj	single, unmarried	Éramos solteros cuando nos conocimos.	We were single when we met.
soltero noun	soltero	noun	single (one who is not married or does not have a romantic partner)	El soltero alquiló un apartamento pequeño.	The bachelor rented a small apartment.
perezoso adj	perezoso	adj	lazy, slothful, sluggish	No seas perezoso con tu práctica diaria.	Don't be lazy with your daily practice.
fiel adj	fiel	adj	faithful, true	Seguimos fieles a nuestros valores.	We remain true to our values.
madrugada noun	madrugada	noun	dawn	Nos levantamos de madrugada para viajar.	We get up at dawn to travel.
helicóptero noun	helicóptero	noun	helicopter (an aircraft that is borne along by one or more sets of long rotating blades which allow it to hover)	Escuchamos el helicóptero volando sobre la ciudad.	We hear the helicopter flying over the city.
proporcionar verb	proporcionar	verb	to provide, supply	¿Podrías proporcionar tu dirección de correo?	Could you provide your email address?
distraer verb	distraer	verb	to entertain, distract	Me distrae escuchar música suave.	Listening to soft music distracts me.
consumo noun	consumo	noun	consumption (the act of eating, drinking or using)	El consumo de energía eléctrica bajó esta semana.	Electricity consumption went down this week.
introducir verb	introducir	verb	to insert	Debes introducir tu contraseña correctamente.	You must enter your password correctly.
puta noun	puta	noun	whore, slut, prostitute	En ciertos barrios, las putas organizan redes de apoyo.	In certain neighborhoods, the whores organize support networks.
pariente noun	pariente	noun	relative, relation (member of one's family)	Mis parientes vendrán a visitarnos mañana.	My relatives will come to visit us tomorrow.
